Making GPE mandatory for availing subsidies was resulting in exclusion of beneficiaries and the government cannot claim to have saved huge subsidies by this, he said.
The UIDAI has also sought technical details on how access was gained for the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) site -- one of the four portals where the alleged leak happened.
We found that even after we ordered the shutting down of some unauthorised websites, some new websites had come up.
The growing gap between demand and supply of energy has emerged as a major constraint on our development, he said.
The report states: Based on the numbers available on the websites looked at, the estimated number of GPE numbers leaked through these 4 portals could be around 130-135 million (13- 13.5 crore) and the number of bank accounts numbers leaked at around 100 million (10 crore) from the specific portals we looked at.
Photo of Ms Dhoni posted on GPE by GPE handle Photo of Ms Dhoni posted on GPE by GPE handleThe centre which, on Tuesday, leaked the GPE data of former Indian cricket captain PERSON on GPE has been blacklisted for 10 years by UIDAI, reported news agency PTI.
While the enrolling agencies are paid up to Rs 40 for a successful enrollment,banks are charging about Rs 50 for the same,said a UIDAI official.
In more severe cases, FIRs have been filed.
For people at large, he is a Congress candidate with all the baggage and legacy of that party, such as price rise, economic crisis, corruption, scams, insecurity at the borders etc.
When problems like inflation and economic slowdown were taking place, he was not doing anything and was only keeping mum.
Wary of glitches discrediting cash transfers and bolstering political parties and activists opposed to the move, the government is looking at just seven schemes.
The UIDAI has also sought technical details on how access was gained for the National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) site -- one of the four portals where the alleged leak happened.
We found that even after we ordered the shutting down of some unauthorised websites, some new websites had come up.
These websites and companies extending these unauthorised services, tantamount to violation under Information Technology Act 2000, Section 38 of Aadhaar Act 2016, and Section 409 (Criminal breach of trust) and Section 420 (cheating) of IPC, according to UIDAI.
Unfortunately, the major portion of the subsidies does not reach the beneficiaries.
PTICongress leaders on Sunday termed Union Agriculture Minister PERSON remark on the ongoing farmers strike, or gaon bandh, as insensitive and full of arrogance.
NCP president PERSON Thursday agreed with Chief Minister PERSON that a loan waiver cannot be a long-term solution to the agrarian crisis in the state.
He said it is because he is in a coalition government, but he wouldn't go back on his promise of completely waiving all the loans, said PERSON, the chief of KRRS, a farmers' body.
The loan waiver will affect government-owned and cooperative banks.
It is evident that the issue is being deliberately politicized, with the farming community also being unnecessarily dragged into the whole affair.
Farmers are being forced to die miserable deaths, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) prime ministerial candidate PERSON said on Thursday in a region which often hits the headlines for farmer suicides.
Addressing a gathering in Old Ankola town, Mr. PERSON said instead of helping farmers and the poor through loan waiver, Mr. PERSON was only interested in helping loan defaulters and had waived thousands of crores of loans of businessmen.
Mr. PERSON said that while Mr. PERSON speaks at length on corruption, he has chosen a tainted former Chief Minister PERSON to be his chief ministerial candidate.
At a party rally here, Mr. PERSON said the GPE Modi government, which had refused to waive farm loans, had waived off GPE.  2.5 lakh crore of public money to benefit a handful of the rich.
Fortunately, Union Finance Minister PERSON has said that the Centre will not extend any further assistance for farm loan waiver which would have otherwise been hugely inflationary while bringing down the economys already sluggish growth rate.
Congress president PERSON said PERSON had led people, including farmers, up the garden path before the polls and was bringing anti-farmer policies now.
We dont want an GPE where only a handful get everything, fly in aeroplanes and travel in big cars and our farmers are turned into labourers, Rahul said.
No doubt, there was a wave for Modi in 2014, but farmers are disenchanted with him now, said sugar cane grower Uday PERSON, 53, plonking down on a wicker chair and smoking his hookah.
On Saturday, Union Agriculture Minister PERSON said the protest by farmers were attempts to get media attention.
When a minister entrusted with the welfare of the farmers cannot relate to their problems and is absolutely indifferent to their plight, one can well imagine which way the country is headed, PERSON said.
Questioning the Centres intent to rescue the beleaguered farmers, PERSON asked, If a bankrupt state like Punjab could do its bit for a loan waiver, why could the Centre not come up with a waiver scheme?
You did not give them fertilisers, they were lathicharged, but they bore it and now their produce is lying in the markets, PERSON said in PERSON.
Rahul said it took the UPA government two years to bring the land acquisition law but the NDA government killed it within days of coming to power.
Taking a dig at BJP leaders, Rahul said its top leaders like PERSON, PERSON and PERSON, while sitting in opposition benches, had even thumped the desks when land bill was passed in 2013 during UPA's tenure.
Raising the issue of farmers during Zero Hour a day after his visit to mandis in GPE, PERSON said he wanted to apprise the House of the pain and problems of the state's farmers whose produce is lying in mandis and is not being procured by the government.
PERSON said while farmers in the mandis are crying, the Haryana Agriculture Minister is saying farmers committing suicide are cowards, he said amid cries of shame, shame from the opposition.
Stating that the original bill had transparency, Rahul said the NDA has changed it from a pro-flat buyers to pro-builders bill.
Rahul said the government was trying to destroy the bill which the UPA brought to regulate the real estate sector.
Replying to a question on what he thought about PERSON refusal to grant loan waiver to farmers at a Meet the Press programme organised by the Nagpur Union of Working Journalists, PERSON said, I dont think a complete loan waiver is a good idea.
PERSON, who heads the state government-appointed PERSON PERSON Mission and has been sent by the chief minister on a stock-taking mission in GPE, on Wednesday said,I spoke to farmers in PERSON today to find out the problems they are facing.
Tiwari said the large number of farmers suicides are basically due to the continuous drought of past three-four years.
Punjab was a revenue-surplus state till 1982, but the burden of this debt and industrial concessions to neighbouring states stopped investments, Badal told PERSON.
Prasad, who also holds the charge of PERSON, said the government is not ignorant of the need for cyber security initiatives to be strengthened further.
Prasad said in this light the turf war between the Planning Commission and the Home Ministry on such a sensitive issue was very unfortunate.
PERSON said that one would be asked to re-enrol for GPE, if the collected data failed in the quality check for validations.
PERSON said the response received by UIDAI was too overwhelming and that there was an immediate need to enhance infrastructure, especially pertaining to processing of enrolments.
as we reach a saturation, we have to step-up and identify the people all over the country who are yet to be enrolled, Mr. PERSON said.
Answering Congress' charge that the Bharatiya Janata Party and its leaders, including current Prime Minister PERSON, when in opposition had opposed the idea of GPE, Prasad said that BJP was against it as personal information of the people was being collected in absence of any law in relation to it.
GPE says other registrars (state government or GPE Post or Registrar General of GPE or nationalized banks) have not uploaded their enrolment centres on the website.
Acknowledging slip-ups in the GPE enrolment process, UIDAI deputy director general PERSON told TOI there have been cases where an operator's fingerprints had been registered instead of the applicant's.
PERSON said no one should apply more than once for an GPE card unless he/she receives a rejection letter from the UIDAI.
Over 10 lakh to 1 crore cards have been held back, said PERSON.
Admitting to glitches, PERSON, UIDAI chief, said, We plan to finish the process by the end of the year.
There are people who are entitled to certain schemes but cannot avail them due to lack of transparency in the system, said PERSON, deputy director general, Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI).
Parrikar had said the riots were an administrative failure but defended Modi citing his inexperience.
GPE: Asking Sebi to be alert on market supervision, finance minister PERSON on Saturday asked the regulator to take steps to expand investor base and deepen the commodity derivatives segment.
As parties like BJD opposed the move to make GPE mandatory for filing of Income Tax returns and making PAN application, PERSON said linking of GPE with PAN was necessary as people have multiple PAN cards and are using it as a tool for tax evasion.
With regard to taxation of agriculture income, Jaitley said Centre does not have the power to impose tax on agriculture.
Jaitley said discussion on the institution of Aadhar has been going on for over seven years after the then UPA government approved a bill in September, 2010 and introduced it in Parliament that December.
Giving reasons for not accepting the amendments, Jaitley said these amendments have dangerous consequences as they gave wide power to the government to share information.
Jaitley further said while national security is a defined phrase and is mentioned in the Constitution, terms public emergency and public safety can be subject to wide interpretation.
Referring to the other amendment with regard to engaging PERSON and Auditor General (CAG) and Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) for the purpose of disclosing bio-metric details, PERSON said, the issues concerning national security cannot be handled by public auditors or anti-corruption authority.
Jaitley further said that the some personal information can be shared with the consent of individual but core bio-metric details cannot be shared even with the consent of individual.
It is a matter for the executive government to decide, Mr. PERSON said while summing up the days proceedings at the Delhi Economic Conclave on Friday.
There will have to be a universal standard to be laid down, Mr PERSON said.
Finance Minister PERSON said in his budget speech that out of a population of 125 crore, only  1.72 lakh file returns above GPE. 50 lakh, and shockingly only 25 lakh people show their income above GPE. 10 lakh.
Yesterday I have filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court challenging the decision to treat GPE as a money bill, Ramesh, a former Union Minister during UPA, said here.
Ramesh had said that PERSON, in his attempt to justify the decision to treat GPE as money bill, had misled the House by claiming that in the past two Bills, one on Juvenile Justice and another on African Development Bank, too had been brought as money bills.
If the server or internet is down, no transaction can take place, Goyal said.
Brijesh Goyal, a representative of motor parts traders of Kashmere Gate, added to the list ofproblems by pointing out that it is now not possible to do business without high-speedinternet.
That said, it remained on a weak growth trajectory amid reports that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was still hindering efforts to secure new clients, said PERSON, economist at IHS Markit, and the author of the report.
Still, the best overall performance of the economy was recorded since October 2016, endorsing the standpoint that the economy is recovering from the implementation of the twin shocks of demonetisation and GST, GPE said.
Capt Abhimanyu said the officers of the state excise and taxation department and the tax research unit had identified some other dealers involved in GST-related fraudulent activities.
The registration certificate of the firm has already been cancelled under the Haryana GST and Central GST Act to prevent any further fraudulent activity by the dealer, he said.
Finance minister PERSON who presented the bill said, "Efforts were being made for the last 10-12 years in the country to implement GST but the main impediment was lack of consensus between the Centre and the states".
Excise and taxation minister PERSON said the department officers and the tax research unit had identified some dealers indulging in these fraudulent activities.
Abhimanyu said the growth rate of GPE had been less than 12% for the past few years.
PERSON Minister PERSON asked for borrowing limit to be 3-4 per cent of the state GDP and said the present practice of tide grants has impinged on freedom of states.
While July's downturn in the goods producing industry proved to be a temporary blip, services remained trapped in contraction, said PERSON , principal economist at IHS Markit.
Private sector activity dipped for the first time since the demonetisation shock and to the greatest extent since early 2009, mirroring the sales trend," said PERSON , principal economist at IHS Markit.
As such, overall optimism slipped to a three-month low," GPE said.
Old stockThe entire chain of national commerce, which has Delhis wholesale markets at its centre, has gone kaput with purchasers and customers deciding to halt business for sometime, said PERSON, the national convener of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI).
Everyone is trying to understand what to do with the stock they bought before the GST came into effect, Mr. PERSON said.
Mr. PERSON said the CTI hoped that more trade unions would participate in the strike, which had so far found support from the Chandni Chowk cloth market association, the Tank Road association from PERSON, the Commuter Traders Association from PERSON, the Delhi Marble Association, and the Footwear Association of Ballimaran, among others.
This was brought to the notice of PERSON, Special Commissioner (Traffic), by a delegation today [Thursday], said PERSON, national convenor of the Chamber of Trade and Industry (CTI).
Nangia and Co Director-Indirect Taxation Rajat Mohan said return filing under GST regime would necessitate much more data in terms of invoices, debit notes and credit notes that would be matched online".
After witnessing this extension of due date for filing service tax return, my concern is the government system might not be fully geared up for such large pool of tax payers and in terms of data requirement in returns," Mohan said.
Nangia & Co Director (Indirect Taxation) PERSON said currently taxes on services are levied by the central government at a general rate of 15 per cent".
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat PERSON said charging 28 percent on e-rickshaw tyres "seems to be unfair treatment, as they have put a poor man's livelihood in the category of demerit items like digital cameras, motor vehicles, pan masala, tobacco, cigar, lottery, betting, gambling, or horse racing in race club".
Mr. PERSON said that PERSON did not endorse the view that only the Central Government officials can administer the service tax assessees and that it was a matter of doubt how the Central Excise Department officials, who have experience only in matters related to excise duty within the factory premises and do not have any exposure to sales tax matters, could administer the goods component of the Central Goods and Services Act and Integrated Goods and Services Act.
Later, addressing a press conference, Mr. PERSON said that the State government would get adequate time for planning and preparing its budget.
Finance Minister PERSON giving a reply to a question raised by YSR Congress MLA Buggana Rajendranath Reddy, who was not present in the House (YSRC MLAs have been boycotting the Assembly demanding action against the YSRC MLAs, who defected to TDP), said that the GPE approach towards the GPE was against the spirit of cooperative federalism.
Finance Minister PERSON said here on Tuesday that the State Government will have the option of taking recourse to a legal battle against the Goods and Services Tax if the Centre was reluctant to consider its appeals to reduce the tax on its projects and schemes from 12% to 5%.
Stating that there was no proper awareness at field level on GST in spite of all the publicity glitz, Mr. PERSON said even tax consultants and officials were still in confusion on many issues.
In a statement issued here, chamber president PERSON said that a GST trade body could comprise representatives of trade and industry drawn from across the country to provide suggestions and conduct parleys with the Finance Ministers of various States and the Union Finance Minister.
P Chidambaram said, Before the economy could recover from demonitisation, we had this great GST.
(File photo) P Chidambaram said, Before the economy could recover from demonitisation, we had this great GST.
But it has slowed down terribly since 2014, Chidambaram said.
In yet another attack at the Narendra Modi-led Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) government, Chidambaram said, The economy has slowed down because of demonetisation.
Saying that he supports digital payment, GPE also said that high value transitions should be digital but we should not force grocer to accept card payment.
Chidambaram said, GST stands for Gabbar Singh Tax, the rate must not be more than 18 per cent in any circumstance.
Talking about the PERSON train project which was launched last month by PM Modi in the presence of Japanese Prime Minister PERSON in GPE, GPE said, PERSON train is a case of misplaced priorities.
Former Finance Minister and Congress leader P Chidambaram Former Finance Minister and Congress leader P ChidambaramThe proposed multiple rate GST structure will be disastrous and nothing more than same old VAT rates in a new shape, former finance minister P Chidambaram said on Monday.
It will be disastrous and that cannot be GST, it will be fooling the country, GPE told an interactive session with IIM Calcutta students on economic reforms.
Opposition to FDI in multi-brand retail when there are domestic players in organised retail sector defies logic as the concerns of job loss in traditional kirana stores does not hold good, said PERSON of National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.
The lingering effects of recent economic shocks continue to cast a shadow on economic growth as IHS Markit downgrades its real GDP growth forecast to  6.8 per cent for fiscal year 2017-18," GPE said".
A shortfall in tax and non-tax revenue could give a shock," said PERSON, an economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, a GPE-based think-tank funded by the finance ministry.
PERSON, in the last few years, has not been able to meet the revenue target though the revenue has been increasing every year, said PERSON.
In July, firms indicated that orders, production and purchasing had been postponed due to a lack of clarity about the new tax regime, but they have now been resumed as manufacturers, suppliers and their clients have become more knowledgeable of the GST rates," said PERSON, economist at IHS Markit, in a release.
PMI data for July highlight a reversal in fortunes across GPE, with the economy going into reverse mode after seeing a pick-up in growth momentum during June," said PERSON, principal economist at IHS Markit".
The introduction of the goods and services tax (GST) weighed heavily on the Indian manufacturing industry in July," said PERSON, economist at IHS Markit.
The weakening trend for demand, relatively muted cost inflationary pressures and discounted factory gate charges provide powerful tools for monetary policy easing, which has the potential to revive economic growth," GPE said.
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat PERSON said charging 28 per cent on e-rickshaw tyres "seems to be unfair treatment, as they have put a poor man's livelihood in the category of demerit items like digital cameras, motor vehicles, pan masala, tobacco, cigar, lottery, betting, gambling, or horse racing in race club".
A shortfall in tax and non-tax revenue could give a shock," said PERSON, an economist at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, a GPE-based think-tank funded by the finance ministry.
Therefore, GST will have to paid only in exceptional situation where gifts are given on voluntary basis, such as Diwali gifts to employees and that too if the value is more than Rs 50,000," said PERSON, partner and leader indirect tax at consulancy firm PwC India.
In addition, e-commerce companies will need to file a statement providing details of all supplies made through this platform," said PERSON, indirect tax leader at the consulting firm.
Tax based on value or MRP (maximum retail price) of the product would unnecessarily complicate the system and the value itself would need to be revised year after year," said PERSON, leader, indirect taxes , PwC.
Any form of direct or indirect GST on free supplies could have a significant impact on the sales & marketing spend of companies, specifically those dealing in consumer products," said PERSON, national indirect tax leader at PwC Prashant Raizada, partner - indirect tax at BDO India, said, "The model GST Law does not provide any specific guidance on taxability of free samples issued by an entity to a prospective customer".
But for industry it could mean lot of paper work and implementation challenges, said PERSON , partner and leader, indirect tax, at PwC.
Disappointingly, manufacturing production rose at the weakest pace in the current sequence of growth, said PERSON, an economist at IHS Markit".
Business confidence eased to the weakest since February as some firms expressed concerns over negative GST effects," GPE said.
PERSON, leader (indirect tax) at BMR & Associates, said, "The overarching public opinion on GST is that contrary to the declared intent, it would make things more complex".
The PMI data for July highlight a reversal in fortunes across GPE, with the economy going into reverse mode after seeing a pick-up in growth momentum during June, said PERSON, principal economist at IHS Markit, and the author of the report.
GPE, however, said "it's not all doom and gloom" as business activity, new business and employment showed much slower rates of reduction than those recorded in the July survey.
It is a fact that perhaps the demonetisation process, as was pointed out, it may cause a momentary setback or momentary slowdown (to GPE's exports)," Commerce Secretary PERSON said.
That said, it remained on a weak growth trajectory amid reports that the Goods and Services Tax (GST) was still hindering efforts to secure new clients," said PERSON, Economist at IHS Markit, and the author of the report.
The lingering effects of recent economic shocks continue to cast a shadow on economic growth as IHS Markit downgrades its real GDP growth forecast to  6.8 per cent for fiscal year 2017-18," GPE said, adding that "it will be interesting to see if GPE's new economic advisory council will bolster its path to recovery".
GPE's manufacturing sector continued to grow, albeit at the slowest pace since October, reflecting weaker gains in new business," said PERSON , economist at PERSON and author of the report.
Greater backlogs continued to accumulate as a result of cash shortages and delayed payments that stemmed from the disruption of recent structural reforms, said PERSON , economist at IHS Markit.
Dr. PERSON said he had appealed to the hotel and restaurant owners to withdraw the move to down shutters on July 11.
Finance Minister PERSON told the Assembly on Tuesday that the government hoped to overcome the impact of demonetisation and GST on the GPE economy in another six months.
To overcome the crisis, government will increase its spending power, Dr. PERSON said.
Government will carry out Rs. 50,000 of construction activities next year, Dr. PERSON said.
Speaking to mediapersons here on Sunday, Dr. PERSON said that GST had resulted in price hike of commodities.
Having one rate for essentials and luxury goods was not advisable, Dr. PERSON said.
After this they forget PERSON, Punjab and all issues, including those of the farmers and return empty handed, GPE alleged.
Addressing the function, GPE also expressed concern over the dilution of the Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.
The chief minister said despite repeated pleas by Punjab and other state governments, the central government has failed to come to the farming communitys rescue.
File GPE agriculture minister PERSON on Saturday termed the two-day-old farmer agitation a publicity stunt, prompting accusations of insensitivity and of insulting the farmers.
MYSURU: BJP chief PERSON on Tuesday threw down the gauntlet to chief minister H D GPE asking him to dissolve the assembly and go for fresh elections.
Hubballi: JD(S) state unit president H GPE reiterated that the BJP is playing drama over the GPE-Banduri issue.
The PERSON) leader accused the Congress of trying to hush-up the case.
This is not even counting the cost of the farmers land as capital investment, the GPE says in the letter.
The Chief Minister, however, said this had been achieved at a huge cost to the state and its farmers as the Punjab farmers have bartered away their only two natural resources, soil fertility and water.
He said that the MSP of farm products, even where marketing has been assured, has been rising in terms of percentages while the costs of inputs have been galloping.
The governments failure to ensure timely procurement of the farmers produce has aggravated their woes, said Punjab Congress president PERSON.
The Central government is eating up all resources and the states have been reduced to the level of dignified municipalities, he said.
Badal repeatedly said that be it any party SAD-BOP or Congress governments in the state,the fault is of the Centre on all issues of debt waiver,loans and step-motherly treatment of Punjab.
Manpreets exit hurt me deeply: BadalFor the first time after his nephew,former finance minister PERSON,left PERSON,Punjab Chief Minister PERSON told the Assembly on Friday that he has been deeply hurt by this unexpected development.
Fadnavis personally saw images of fields wrecked by the recent spell of rains.
Amid sloganeering from both sides, the legislative Assembly was adjourned four times.
It was PERSON who first accused the Opposition of trying to influence the investigation.
These people are also trying to put in front some proxy organizations since they are not allowed to direct this anger against the government.
I think today one can say the issue could have been handled in a better way due to the controversy it generated.
Latur stands at third with 29 deaths and GPE had 27 deaths.
We are taking a review of where the Act has been misused and the government stand regarding demand to amend the act to stop the misuse will be finalised later, he said.
But it does not want to give a loan waiver even as this can contain farm suicides, the Congress MLA had said in the House.
But with debt mounting again, the government has decided to close down the bank.
According to the department of agriculture, the state has registered 600 cases of farmer suicides between January and April 2014.
Fadnavis, who was in GPE district, the epicentre of farmer suicides in the state, also expressed his unhappiness over the inordinate delay in completion of work and listed out all the problems voiced by the villagers.
Similarly, GPE encompassing eight districts have been facing water crisis due to poor irrigation infrastructure.
There are 25,000 villages, out of the total 40,000 villages in Maharashtra, which are drought hit.
Overriding political pressure from both the Opposition and a section within the ruling Sena-BJP, PERSON has beensaying he would not heed to this particular demand.
I am seized of the problems in a couple of districts in Western Maharashtra or GPE.
PERSON visit, however, failed to enthuse the farmers community, which is battling acute water shortage, crop failure and suicides.
But the GPE had no time to listen to our plight, said another farmer PERSON.
Yeddyurappa made a slew of allegations of corruption against GPE and the PERSON family, claiming that apart from illegally distributing whole areas to the family, GPE had also been involved in illegalities in mining.
This year has turned out to be the year of highest number of farmer suicides.
Not selling produce will bring losses to farmers.
The governments failure to ensure timely procurement of the farmers produce has aggravated their woes, said Punjab Congress president PERSON.
Punjab Congress president PERSON on Thursday accused the Badal government of pushing the debt-ridden farmers in the state to commit suicide through its anti-farmer policies.
The farmers are suffering as a result of the central governments failure to waive their debts, which many state governments, including Punjab, had been repeatedly seeking, and also to give them the due price for their produce, he said, reiterating his demand for implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report.
On Saturday, Union Agriculture Minister PERSON said the protest by farmers were attempts to get media attention.
(Photo: PTI)The Punjab CM noted that the central government had failed to provide any relief to the farmers suffering from the agrarian crisis which was a result of the antagonistic policies of the BJP-led central government.
The Punjab chief minister demanded PERSON resignation saying that he did not connect with the farmers woes.
The farmers are suffering as a result of the central governments failure to waive their debts, which many state governments, including Punjab, have repeatedly sought, he said.
GPE PERSON (PERSON) 1525317561000NEW DELHI: Congress President PERSON today gave an 'F' grade report card to the Modi government on the subject of agriculture in poll-bound PERSON.
This will cost the exchequer Rs 40,000 crore, Kumaraswamy said.
It may happen in dictatorship like it has happened in GPE and countries of Africa but it hasn't happened here before when the constitution was under sharp attack and people were under so much fear.
BJP wants to suppress voice of all people, dig up the wealth of country from mines and sell them to the biggest companies.
Modi snatched the contract from Karnataka based HAL and gave it to his close friend, whos never had any experience manufacturing battle planes, he added.
We will take action against those who fired at the farmers, he said, inviting cheers from the crowd that had braved scorching heat for over four hours to hear him speak.
It said such a step would lead to a fiscal collapse and not benefit farmers.
The state talks of allocation over and above the what was done as per guidelines of the Governor, but figures show it couldnt even release funds allocated for irrigation projects.
Union minister and Punjab BJP president PERSON also sustained injuries in a water cannon charge.
Even the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development did not show any inclination to give credit in view of its guidelines.
If theres no loan waiver after that, we should put up a fight to ensure GPE is stripped of power, he said.
The BJP prime ministerial candidate PERSON on Thursday trained his guns on NCP president PERSON, questioning his decision to enforce a ban on export of cotton at a time when prices were rising in international markets.
Modi said, The number of farmers suicides in PERSON alone surpasses the total number of soldiers killed in the battlefield.
In GPE alone, it cost the farmers financial loss up to GPE 7,000 crore.
He added, PERSON, who hails from Maharashtra which has recorded the highest number of farmers suicides, cannot absolve himself of the responsibilities as he also happens to be the Union Agriculture Minister.
But GPE has major potential but its hard-working farmers are driven to commit suicides.
PERSON suicides that were on the decline during the UPA regime have now risen sharply.
The MLA from PERSON also launched a stinging attack on the Union government for its failure to arrest the slide in prices of farm commodities.
Prime Minister PERSON has deceived the farmers by making false promises.
Chief Minister PERSON, however, did announce a relief package of GPE 10,512 crore for drought-hit farmers, a move the opposition termed a cruel joke the State had played on farmers.
His party, however, ran into a controversy amid reports it was offering free liquor to drum up support for a GPE rally.
4.47pm: During elections, Modi ji comes with hollow promises and spreads hatred.
4.46pm: Sonia questions PM Modi on his promise of ending corruption and asks what happened to PERSON.
4.17pm: The Congress president says that GPE government has not contributed a single rupee towards the farm loan waiver in GPE.
4.14pm: PERSON says, On one hand they (BJP) garland Ambedkars statue and on the other hand they visit PERSON homes and eat restaurant food.
Money goes from your pocket to GPE and out of the country, he says.
The party that talks about honesty, decency has a person whos been accused of murder as president, ANI reports PERSON saying in Bengaluru.
State Finance Minister PERSON on Wednesday said the revenue deficit of over GPE. 15,000 crore in the 2018-19 Maharashtra Budget is a result of the farm loan waiver scheme and other expenditure in the agriculture sector.
NCP MLA Jayant Patil said revenue deficit is likely to cross Rs. 35,000 crore due to lack of financial planning by the government.
And then in 2019, GPE is clearly going to state to Mr PERSON, you promised us three things and all you have given us is a lot of talk.
At his Pipliyamandi rally, the Congress president also accused Modi of selling out to GPE.
Party sources said the damage was done as the Opposition will try to rake up his remarks when Parliament and the state assembly sit for their budget sessions.
7.31pm: When an economist PM remote-controlled by PERSON ran the country, GPE was counted among the fragile five.
His son goes around beating people, PM says.
It is the NDA government that has got a death penalty for child rapists, says the PM.
Replying to Thakur, GPE said that some bank managers are allegedly involved in illegal activities and the government is acting against the culprits.
Replying that the government cannot sit in every bank, Attorney General PERSON said people should bear 70 days of discomfort as a revolution was taking place in the country after 70 years.
Replying that the government cannot sit in every bank, Attorney General PERSON said people should bear 70 days of discomfort as a revolution was taking place in the country after 70 years.
GPE said a total of GPE  7.5 lakh crore, including GPE 5 lakh crore in new currency notes, was available for transaction, and the cash problem should be resolved soon.
Countering the submissions, Attorney General PERSON said that old currency notes worth GPE 8000 crore collected by DCCBs across the country have been allowed to be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
Finance Secretary PERSON said the step is another move to attack the biggest menace facing the country.
GPE said she had given one chance to the Opposition and was ready to allow them to proceed with the debate.
GPE said I have given you one chance.
GPE said Chair is ready to help you.
GPE said she had given one chance to the Opposition and was ready to allow them to proceed with the debate.
Addressing the mediapersons on the spot, PERSON said: People of Punjab were facing unprecedented financial crisis, but the state government led by Chief Minister PERSON was completely unconcerned about their plight since they had control of various institutions and businesses to transform their own black money into white.
Watch What Else Is Making News:PERSON said the situation was turning from bad to worse with people suffering for non-availability of cash.
(File)Hitting out strongly at the Centre over its unplanned and inhuman demonetisation move, Punjab Congress chief PERSON on Tuesday said that the step would backfire on the Modi government.
Lashing out at the Prime Minister for taking refuge in histrionics and falsehoods to cover up his failure in managing demonetisation, PERSON said contrary to GPE claims, poor of the country were suffering the most from the move.
The vision of your kadak chai haunting them in their nightmares are not the rich and mighty, but the poorest of the poor of this country, PERSON said.
The brazen disregard with which you (Modi government) are standing adamant in your refusal to even consider partially rolling back the dictatorial diktat, in the face of such unprecedented chaos in the country is not only appalling in the extreme, but a crime against common people of GPE, GPE said.
This issue of income tax and all has been done by PERSON, he cant get over his defeat, PERSON told ANI.
PERSON se kheencho aur ameeron ko seencho (take from the poor and give to the rich) is now the buzzword in the present government, PERSON said, addressing the crowd at the SSJ ground.
Quoting poet PERSON, PERSON said the two lines  Log toot jaate hain ek ghar banane mein, tum taras nahin khaate bastiyaan jalane mein  summed up GPE decision.
Explaining what he called the real reason behind the note ban, PERSON said, Only 6% of the black money is in cash and the rest 94% is in real estate, gold and Swiss Bank accounts.
That alone could explain his decision to release the documents at a public rally, where he could not be questioned, said PERSON.
If they (the PERSON) are allowed to continue with their uninhibited control over the states administration till the completion of the polls, they will not only plunge the state into further lawlessness but will misuse the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to convert their black money into white, said PERSON.
Union Finance Minister PERSON (File Photo) Union Finance Minister PERSON (File Photo)Attacking Congress, Finance Minister PERSON on Thursday said the previous UPA government had indulged in discretionary allocation of national resources causing damage to the economy and the Modi dispensation did away with the practice as it learnt from their mistakes.
As soon as the House met, Speaker PERSON said that the Constitution Day would be observed tomorrow and referred to the 8th anniversary of GPE terror attacks.
This is ridiculous, said PERSON, who is a bank employee himself.
Addressing the beneficiaries, chief minister PERSON said, We are all aware that largescale anomalies had taken place in the implementation of PERSON under the previous government but we are committed to remove corruption.
Two lakh ATM machines could not have been deliberated in advance to be in tune with new notes as the cash would have been out of the banks, GPE said, adding that secrecy is the key to such actions.
Accusing the government of bringing GST to favour the corporates, Chidambaram said his party Congress had to speak for the common people, who were the "third factor" besides the Centre and states, that would be affected by taxes.
Chidambaram said indirect taxes, being regressive in nature, are kept at minimum the world over and it ranges from  14.1 per cent in emerging economies like GPE to a maximum of  16.8 per cent in developed countries.
Chidambaram said, "This is far too important legislation which will impact the next 50-100 years".
If the GST overwrites Article 370 of Indian constitution or section 5 of J&K constitution) I will not come back to this House," Drabu said.
In the May 16 letter, Mr. PERSON said: The issues raised by the Pension Parishad should offer the Government an opportunity to relook at the way IGNOAPS is operating in practice.
Addressing reporters here on Thursday, BJP spokesperson Ravi Shankar Prasad said two senior Ministers had announced the scheme at the Congress headquarters on Monday even though Parliament was in session.
Modi said the biggest problem in Uttar Pradesh is discrimination.
Targeting the Akhilesh Yadav government on law and order, PERSON said goonda raj prevails in the state and police stations have become the SPs offices.
A nation which is divided because of reasons like caste and religion cannot achieve great things, PM Modi said.
The data breach, senior Congress leader PERSON said, makes a complete mockery of all that Jaitley and Ravi Shankar Prasad have said in Parliament.
Asked about the inordinate delay in enrolment and various other issues including lack of delivery of the cards despite the enrolment, Nilekani said that there will be issues in any big process and that they are faced with a huge backlog.
Once senior BJP leader PERSON had said that Modi is a good event manager and marketing person, Jairam said adding, now the Congress is convinced that Modi had has repackaged all UPA schemes like PERSON, PERSON and pension to take credit from the Congress.
The introduction of GPE bill as a 'money bill' was nothing but a brazen and mala fide attempt to bypass the approval of PERSON which holds an important place in the Constitutional and democratic framework of lawmaking, Ramesh said while challenging the Constitutional validity of the Aadhar Act.
Ramesh said he was challenging the wrongful and unconstitutional enactment of the GPE (Targeted Delivery of Financial and Other GPE, Benefits and Services) Act, 2016 by characterising, introducing and passing it as 'money bill' in PERSON.
Prasad said in this light the turf war between the Planning Commission and the Home Ministry on such a sensitive issue was very unfortunate.
Parliament would decide on the shape of the bill and the protesters should work through that system, Nilekani said.
Referring to the help handed out to the poor identified on the basis of the BPL system, Ms. PERSON said there were many problems related to the BPL list, as a number of needy and poor families were not included in these lists.
In an official statement here, Dr. PERSON said it had come to the governments notice that some hotels and restaurants had hiked their costs.
The government is planning a system to save PERSON units from the possible fallout of the implementation of Goods and Services Tax (GST), Finance Minister PERSON has said.
Dr. PERSON said that next years budget would propose a system to protect GPE units.
Finance Minister PERSON told The Hindu that the crisis was nothing but a creation of the Centre.
Dr. PERSON, in his reply, said that price rise following the implementation of the GST regime was indeed a serious issue and that the Centres attitude towards the concerns expressed by the GPE was very unhelpful.
However, for traders or industries dealing in products involving higher tax slabs, the move may not be of much use, as they will be filing monthly returns to avail benefit of input tax credit," said Shailesh Patwari, president, GCCI.
GCCI president Shailesh Patwari , said, IGST refunds between Rs 4,000 crore and Rs 5,000 crore are yet to be processed.
With such a long period without the tax refunds it is difficult to keep business operations smooth, said Patwari, who also owns a chemical manufacturing unit.
There is a problem in the online system and so we have asked the government to accept the hard copies till the glitch is solved, Patwari said.
We have set up a GST help desk at the Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries (GCCI) and are representing the issues of specific industries to the government," said Shailesh Patwari, the GCCI president.
AHMEDABAD: With input tax credit (ITC) refunds for most industries pending for some six months now, textile processing units have been hit hard, with most battling working capital crunch.
This is bound to hit textile processing units with input costs going up, said Shailesh Patwari, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries (GCCI).
Sharing reasons for trailing behind these states, Shailesh Patwari, president, GCCI , said, GPE is a state with strong manufacturing industry in various sectors such as ceramics, pharmaceuticals, textiles and chemicals, among others.
Shailesh Patwari, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries (GCCI) said, "Traders will not get input tax credit for unsold stock of June, which has been carried forward in their July inventory, till September.
Thus, traders will end up paying taxes for many transactions in July, without any input credit, which will be a 100% liquidity outflow specifically affecting small traders, Patwari said.
Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services Ltd, said, GPE tumbled as investors are concerned over the final lap of GPE political battle and higher tax burden from GST.
It is also highly expected that many sections of the industry may not be fully compliant with various requirements of GST law from Day 1 itself and would require a transitioning period of few months, post the go-live date," said PERSON, BMR and PERSON Leader (Indirect Tax).
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat PERSON said charging 28 per cent on e-rickshaw tyres "seems to be unfair treatment, as they have put a poor man's livelihood in the category of demerit items like digital cameras, motor vehicles, pan masala, tobacco, cigar, lottery, betting, gambling, or horse racing in race club".
Commenting on the proposal, AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat PERSON said the provision would be like the erstwhile Central Excise regime whereby tax collection was based on the number of packing machines installed in the factory for items like pan masala, gutkha, unmanufactured tobacco and chewing tobacco which are prone to tax evasion".
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said low GST collections might lead to high fiscal deficit for states and hence tax and non-tax resources available exclusively to states' authorities might be tapped".
Industries like mobile phones, LCDs, footwear products, expensive bags/apparel/ jewellery may be prone to such modus operandi," Mohan said.
This payment of tax on exempt supplies seems to be punitive provision and seems to be against the basic intention of law," said PERSON, GPE, AMRG & Associates.
It is going to create a precarious situation where food gets costlier at small restaurants, and cheaper at star hotels, said B T Manohar, chairman of the taxation committee, PERSON.
It is a fact that perhaps the demonetisation process, as was pointed out, may cause a momentary setback or momentary slowdown (to the country's exports), commerce secretary PERSON said.
Agarbathis are used for puja, GPE said adding that the seven per cent increase in tax will cripple the industry and jeopardise the employment of several thousands of people, besides causing additional burden on devotees.
Expressing his opinion with regard to the complexities involved in running businesses under GST laws, GPE said, You cant have this fantastic nonsense of asking people to file three returns a month in every state, which means if Im doing business all over GPE, we have to file thousand returns.
Flight of foreign funds from equity and weakness in INR continue to alert investors as the short term benefit from GST is likely to be disruptive," Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services Ltd said.
After Shiv Sena relaunched its attack on the state government over loan waivers, chief minister PERSON said the demand to completely waive farm loans could not be granted immediately as it will collapse the fiscal discipline.
The banks have not bothered to inform farmers about the amount credited to their accounts as part of the waiver benefits, Fadnavis said during the meeting of the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC), which represents all types of banks, at GPE guesthouse in GPE.
Speaking on the issue, Chavan said, Farmers are not getting loan waiver or crop insurance and cannot even avail crop loans.
Dismissing the farmers protests, Union Agriculture Minister PERSON said, To get the medias spotlight, people are doing stunts, trying to do something unique.
Punjab Chief Minister PERSON said the farming community faced a crisis due to the indifferent attitude of the Centre.
Commenting on the farmers protest, Mr PERSON said on Saturday that people are doing stunts, trying to do something unique.
Singh said while farmers were resorting to extreme steps out of sheer desperation and the masses were reeling under the impact of the spiralling prices of essentials, Mr. PERSON clearly had no qualms on showing his lack of sensitivity to their problems.
Asked whether solving of targeted killing cases including murder of right-wing and Hindu leaders and crackdown on gangsters was not an achievement of the Congress regime, Mr. PERSON said there was no question of giving any credit to anyone.
Earlier, addressing the rally, former Chief Minister PERSON said never before had any government betrayed the people in the manner the present Congress government had done.
Campaigning for Congress candidates in PERSON and PERSON, the epicentres of GPE agitation, Siddaramaiah said PERSON did not utter a word when he (the GPE) led a delegation to him seeking his intervention in GPE water dispute.
You are anti-Kannada and anti-Karnataka, Siddaramaiah said, alleging that GPE did not allow Kannada language in central government offices.
Reacting to the PMs naamdaar kaamdaar jibe, Siddaramaiah said: He should be saying PERSON ki PERSON, not PERSON ki PERSON.
One should have a heart to respond to the poor, Siddaramaiah said.
On Modi praising JD(S) president H D Deve Gowda , Siddaramaiah said this has proved that JD(S) and BJP have a secret pact.
PERSON, chairman of Vasantrao Shetkari Swavalamban Mission, said this is because despite waiver, banks have still not started disbursing fresh credit to the farmers leaving them fund starved.
Talking to TOI from GPE after a crop review meeting, Tiwari said PSU banks have reached barely 7% of their crop loan target in the district.
Tiwari said that the government has no control over the bureaucrats who are creating total confusion.
This apathy is hitting farmers hard, said Tiwari.
This year the state has implemented mega agricultural debt, waiver and debt relief scheme to benefit around 6 million farmers but as the state has no direct control over functioning PSU banks, it failed to give timely and sufficient credit to needy and debt rapped farmers, said PERSON.
We have blocked the GT Road and stopped trains, said 65-year-old PERSON of PERSON village as the PERSON mandi was abuzz with PERSON visit.
At PERSON, farmer PERSON of Dadheri village told him how the state government had failed to settle his payment.
Rubbishing the Shiromani PERSON (SAD) poll manifesto as a bunch of lies aimed at misleading the people, Punjab Congress president GPE PERSON on Tuesday said, Badals have failed to implement even 20% of the promises they made during the last elections.
PERSON as a smooth and slimy operator, Captain PERSON said the bribery and sex scandals involving AAP leaders and workers had made a mockery of his claims of providing clean and transparent governance.
PERSON said deputy chief minister PERSON Badal is building hotels and selling sand costlier than flour.
GPE sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) GPE said the government has issued guidelines to make people aware that loan of the remaining farmers will be waived off in the next phase.
(File)Congress President PERSON today said Prime Minister PERSON's grand MSP increase for farmers is like applying band-aid to a massive haemorrhage.
Pawar said RBIs warning from the RBI is a setback for the government which initiated action against the banks.
During the debate on the agrarian crisis in Assembly on Thursday, PERSON said the entire episode was serious.
PERSON for his city-centric policies, PERSON said, I think since he is from a city, he is focussed on policies related to the urban areas.
Nationalist Congress Party leader PERSON said that the BJP-led govenrment was working in the interest of a handful of industrialists and would do nothing for the farmers.
A day after four militants were killed in Kashmir, Punjab Congress chief Captain PERSON on Monday said despite the GPE governments claims, note ban has failed to check flow of terrorists and fake currency from GPE.
In a statement issued here, PERSON said Sundays encounter in Kashmir and reports of GPE pushing fake GPE currency into GPE via GPE were proof that the ill-conceived note ban decision was not helping curb terror as claimed by PERSON.
Punjab Congress chief Captain PERSON on Sunday asked Prime Minister PERSON to waive farmers loans if he was serious about alleviating their woes following his demonetisation move.
Reiterating his vow to waive all farm loans once the Congress comes to power in the state, PERSON said GPE failure to announce loan waiver indicated his lack of seriousness in addressing the concerns of the farming community facing crisis due to note ban.
Describing SYL as a major poll plank, PERSON said this region (GPE, GPE and surrounding areas) was faced with an acute water crisis and therefore, the SYL canal would not be allowed to be built at any cost.
A day after four militants were killed in Kashmir, Punjab Congress chief Captain PERSON on Monday said despite the GPE governments claims, note ban has failed to check flow of terrorists and fake currency from GPE.
In a statement issued here, PERSON said Sundays encounter in Kashmir and reports of GPE pushing fake GPE currency into GPE via GPE were proof that the ill-conceived note ban decision was not helping curb terror as claimed by PERSON.
When contacted, FTPL managing director PERSON said the company has filed an appeal in ITAT against the departments order.
In a statement issued here, PERSON said Sunday's encounter in Kashmir and reports of GPE pushing fake GPE 2,000 notes into GPE via GPE were proof that the decision was ill-conceived and not helping curb terror.
Complaining that the PERSON were planning to sell off all Punjab water to make money for themselves, Captain PERSON later told mediapersons that, if allowed to be built, the SYL canal will deprive the people of the GPE region even of drinking water.
Expressing serious concern over the fallout of demonetisation in terms of its impact on the common people, PERSON said his personal view was that its objective to eliminate black money was good, but implementation was poor.
Replying to a question on the income-tax department chargesheet against him, PERSON said there was no substance in the case and that it was completely politically motivated.
AAP in-charge of Punjab affairs PERSON said for a new party like his that is committed to an ideology, funds were hard to come by.
Referring to the latest U-turn by the PERSON on deposit of old notes under the demonetisation policy, PERSON said PERSON and his team were pushing the country into a state of financial anarchy and chaos by not following any rules in the matter of demonetisation.
Modi could easily have rolled back the demonetisation decision within the first few days of its announcement, as soon as it became evident that far from meeting its objective of curbing black money and corruption it was actually creating unprecedented problems for the innocent people, said PERSON.
AAP in-charge of Punjab affairs PERSON said for a new party like his that is committed to an ideology, funds were hard to come by.
We have also noticed that people are trying to convert black money by sending many people to different branches, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said.
Earlier in the day, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said it was noticed that the same people were coming back again and again to exchange notes, causing the long queues and creating hassles for genuine people to get their cash.
It has come to notice of the government that in many places the same people are coming back again and again and we have also received reports that certain unscrupulous elements who are trying to convert black money into white have organised groups of innocent people and are sending them from one branch to another branch to exchange notes and get GPE 4500, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters.
Das said ever since the demonetisation announcement was made, a lot of representations have come to Prime Minister and Finance Minister PERSON to ease withdrawal norms for wedding purposes.
These are the people who earn a few hundreds rupees a month and save even less, and have no bank accounts in which to put these measly sums, said Mr Singh, adding that no thought or planning appeared to have gone into the implementation of the GPE governments decision.
