Over the next six months, we will continue to see an average of 1.5 crore enrollments every month, after which it will decline.
We are going to say that in GPE only registered devices will work (for GPE authentication).
If you want to use GPE authentication, then your devices will have to be registered with us, PERSON, CEO of UIDAI told PTI.
All devices will have to be registered by us, it will further add to the security, he said.
The party plans to finalise most candidates by the end of February.
This can be done, parallel with whatever others (home ministry) are doing.
He also said that UIDAI will detail its position on the GPE system to the apex court in an affidavit to be filed shortly.
Deputy chairman of Planning Commission Montek Singh Ahluwalia told TOI that UIDAI will detail its position on the GPE system to the apex court in an affidavit to be filed shortly.
Just recently it was reported that PERSON is considering the merger of GPE with the National Population Register (NPR) exercise.
We will review GPE project if BJP-led NDA comes to power and look into its flaws.
It did not involve any process of authentication or matching by those agencies with the data held by them, was UIDAIs reply.
It also requires a software that is supported by a bank, which is used by a merchant to take payments.
Section 29(4) of GPE Act prohibits making GPE number of any individual public.
I have said this in Parliament and I say it now.
Kumar said that his election campaign was going full-blast and he was seeing tremendous support here for BJP and for GPE as the country's next Prime Minister.
Nilekani committing hara-kiri: PERSONBangalore, Apr 13, 2014, (PTI) 14:13 ISTFighting Nandan Nilekani to extend his record winning streak in PERSON polls here, senior BJP leader PERSON says the former Infosys chief has committed hara-kiri by fighting on a Congress ticket as the party today symbolises corruption and scams.
GPE is a member of BJP's Parliamentary Board and also a National General Secretary of the party.
In the past two years, he said, the government has enrolled 24 crore people for GPE and we expect to give GPE cards to around 60 crore by 2014.
Here, existing system will continue because they are complex issues involving larger number (of beneficiaries), he added.
He said he will meet petroleum minister PERSON to discuss the modalities soon.
That would make it 121 districts so roughly 20% of the country.
In fact, the number has actually come down from the peak of 35,600 seen in September.
in to download their cards.
They are unaware that they have given their biometrics.
UIDAI is currently working with banks and the National Payments Corporation of GPE (NPCI) and expects to roll out the feature in the next few weeks.
They know when they make specially designed biometric fingerprint scanner for Aadhaar and put another lock as per UIDAI's requirement, it will sell in the market.
We urge them to clearly indicate the purpose for which they are submitting the same along with the date and time.
There is no concept such as smart or plastic GPE card, PERSON , CEO of UIDAI, said in a statement.
Smart card technology is that it can only be read by someone who actually has a card reading device.
GPE also said the government was mulling incorporating Aadhar numbers in the future resident Identity cards of the National Population Register(NPR),which falls under the Home Ministry.
This section of the society will be best dealt, in this manner, he said.
the banks were paying this kind of commission to the Business Correspondents and they will continue to pay at similar levels, he pointed out.
The mobile phone is a bigger tool of surveillance than GPE.
Axis Bank representatives did not respond to requests for comment.
Question is how we minimise the risk.
Stating that subsidy on kerosene should be linked to reforms in the Public Distribution System (PDS), he said the success of direct transfer of subsidy on the fuel would depend on State governments who distributed them.
Sources characterised the meeting as a courtesy call.
WATCH VIDEO: Cauvery Water Dispute: Why Karnataka & Tamil Nadu Have Failed To Find SolutionsWe are yet to receive a copy of the Supreme Court order.
Eligible farmers from GPE, GPE, PERSON, PERSON and Ferozepur districts were given the certificates.
The House was adjourned for thirty minutes.
Medical collegeResponding to the demand raised by Gurdaspur MP and Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee chief PERSON, Capt.
Punjab Chief Minister Captain PERSON on Saturday dismissed allegations levelled by PERSON (SAD) president PERSON Badal that he was trying to pass the buck on farm loan waiverCapt.
In addition, irrigation potential of another 1 lakh hectare will be utilised through the completion of GPE, GPE, Lower Dudhna, Lower Wardha, Lower Panjhara Tillari and Nandur Madhveshwar Phase II dam projects.
These projects will change the face of GPE.
According to the Punjab police, farmers allegedly forced the closure of vegetable mandi in GPE and in Bathinda, farmers owing allegiance to Bhartiya Kisan Union stopped some vehicles carrying milk.
We must not allow our youth to fall prey to drugs at any cost, he added.
Corruption and Congress are two sides of a single coin, he said adding that the only policy of he Congress is to divide and rule.
The SAD leader sought punishment for those responsible for 1984 riots.
The GPE demanded PERSON resignation saying that he did not connect with the farmers woes.
GPE by this, Congress said that the party was unaware of the decision taken at the local level by legislator PERSON and action will be taken against him following a probe.
State education and cultural affairs minister Tawde, whose mill has an outstanding of GPE crore, said he was not involved in day-to-day affairs of the mill.
Meanwhile, outside the House, while the NCP workers staged protests in GPE, PERSON and some other parts of the state, the partys high command has decided not to make this a prestige issue.
Hinting at the rapport between Prime Minister PERSON and PERSON, PERSON wondered how difficult it could be to extract funds from the Centre for the farmers.
PERSON also asked how the state government intended to address the issue of restructuring of loans and what measures were being taken to address the crisis in dairy and sugarcane sectors.
His observation is in contrast with its alliance partner Congress demand for a complete loan waiver.
This is perhaps because of the exigency of repeated sowing or poor harvest prospects due to scanty or heavy rains.
I have been criticised on this but I am of the view that farming has become unviable due to land under agriculture shrinking and the number of people dependent on it growing.
Rahul stressed on maximum attendance of PERSON MPs at a time when the party, reduced to just 44 MPs in the lower House, is struggling to remain the principal Opposition party with AIADMK (37 MPs), GPE (34)and BJD (20).
In what is being viewed as a groundwork for next years parliamentary elections, Congress president PERSON reached out to women, youth and farmers at Nanded in Maharashtras Chandrapur district on Wednesday.
In his first public appearance after a 53-day sabbatical, Congress vice-president PERSON on Saturday vowed to lead a decisive fight against the governments land acquisition law, but his party ran into a controversy amid reports it was offering free liquor to drum up support for a GPE rally.
Dubbing Prime Minister PERSON as one man who knows everything, Congress vice-president PERSON on Thursday said that the PM had to attend his predecessors pathshala as he could not understand how the economy functions.
Through the GPE model, Modi ji showed that he can snatch the land of farmers quite easily and convinced the industrialists that he can do the same in the whole country.
His party, however, ran into a controversy amid reports it was offering free liquor to drum up support for a GPE rally.
This is the second time that the Opposition leaders are meeting the President over the notes ban move.
Congress president PERSON on Thursday said Prime Minister PERSON attacks aimed at him will not pay off because the PERSON assembly elections was a battle of ideologies, not personalities.
4.46pm: Sonia questions PM Modi on his promise of ending corruption and asks what happened to PERSON.
PERSON is back on the campaign trail for the party after a two-year absence.
4.24pm: PERSON says the Congress government in Karnataka has delivered what it promised.
4.14pm: PERSON says, On one hand they (BJP) garland Ambedkars statue and on the other hand they visit PERSON homes and eat restaurant food.
Money goes from your pocket to GPE and out of the country, he says.
Our government in Karnataka has done what Modi government couldnt, says the Congress president.
The party that talks about honesty, decency has a person whos been accused of murder as president, ANI reports PERSON saying in Bengaluru.
11.30am: PERSON says yes, why not on being asked if he can be the prime minister in 2019 if the Congress emerges as the single largest party, ANI reports.
I will fight along with youholding your hands.
Petrol prices will go up by Rs 1.14 per litre and diesel by GPE per litre.
Mr GPE's budget has retained all the welfare schemes of the previous Congress government -- including rice at Rs 1 a kg to the poor and PERSON that serve low-cost meals.
Admitting that about 85 lakh farmers across the southern state were in debt for raising bank loans, he said they were in distress due to recurring droughts and crop failures over the years.
Until then, no one can do anything to me, he said.
In its state budget on July 5, PERSON (Secular)-Congress coalition government had announced a loan waiver of GPE 34,000 crore, which jumped to GPE 40,000 crore after the state last week decided to waive all crop loans of GPE 1 lakh in cooperative banks availed till July 10, 2018.
Noting that an unstable government was a clear sign of failed attempts to diffuse the crisis, Mr PERSON said as a responsible opposition, the BJP would stand by the people and expose the corruption of the coalition government.
To offset the impact, Nagpur Municipal Corporations (NMC) transport department has decided to deploy as many buses as possible on the roads.
You are already under great stress, and the government is not listening to you.
The banks have been asked to treat it as lost assets.
We have also asked for all the deposits to be withdrawn, said Deshmukh.
In 2013, more than 3,000 farmers in the state ended their lives, according to records, but people in the know claim the NCRB does not reflect ground realities.
The figure for last month was 78.
While campaigning for the assembly elections in October last year, the BJP government, currently in power in the state, had targeted the previous Congress-NCP regime for its failure to prevent farmer suicides.
Smaller plots are more expensive to cultivate and small farmers have higher consumption patterns, according to economists.
However, as many as 14 farmers of the village ended their lives because of crop failures and debts.
Yavatmal reports the highest number of farmer suicides in the country.
The State police too have said that they would not allow disruption of any services on Monday.
In a flip-flop on the proposed Karnataka bandh, PERSON, general secretary, PERSON, on Sunday, called on farmers and the public to observe a bandh voluntarily on Monday.
The BJP too has also excluded Bengaluru from the bandh call.
Next year, 2.99 per cent of the 43,488 samples collected were found sub-standard while in 2009-10 3.1 per cent of 54,661 samples collected were found in that category, he said.
The meeting was attended by GPE, deputy leader of opposition in the Assembly PERSON (BJP), and senior officials of the state government.
The SAD-BJP leaders including Sukhbir, GPE, PERSON, GPE, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Dr PERSON, PERSON, PERSON, N K Sharma and PERSON Tinu were detained by the Chandigarh police while marching towards the Punjab assembly.
It was settled between the company and the OBC, and was recorded by PERSON by way of a consent order dated March 16, 2015, he added.
Even a cursory check of the case background would have revealed that Gurpal had no role in the entire affair, he added.
Political parties, including the BJP , were targeting Gurpal only because of the OBC directors personal relationship with him, said PERSON, accusing his rivals of making baseless allegations without bothering to verify the facts, only to secure political mileage.
The family told the police that Joginder went to meet his daughter in a Doraha village and after returning from there, he told his grandson that he has consumed poison.
Late Akali leader PERSON had won from Shahkot fifth time in a row in 2017 and the now party has fielded his son PERSON.
When some laws have to be changed, two-third majority is required and now this is an opportunity to strengthen the government for better future of Punjab, PERSON said.
Training his guns at the UPA government, PERSON said that that Centre had no right to talk of secularism, when it could not provide answers to the many questions raised by the  1.25 billion-strong population of GPE.
PERSON and defence minister AK PERSON, PERSON said that the GPE is praising three AK's- AK47, AK PERSON and PERSON, whose party's official website has an Indian map in which half of Kashmir has already been given to GPE.
Trolled for remarksTaking this argument further, Mr. PERSON said, The person who started the Coca-Cola company was like a person who sells shikanji (lemonade).
: Congress general secretary PERSON said here on Saturday that Youth Congress workers had impressive credentials.
Rahul, during an interactive session with farmers in GPE in GPE, said farmers in GPE were crying when they met him.
Continuing with his attack on PM for making false promises, Rahul asked, PERSON ne dhai saal mein kamjor, yuva, kisan aur majdoor ke liye kya kiya (In the past two-and-a-half years, what has PERSON for the weaker section, youth, farmers or labourers)?
Saying that the PM calls Neerav Modi and PERSON his bhai, PERSON told farmers to ask the PM as to how many jobs his pet industrialists have created.
Vishal SrivastavWhile addressing the public in GPE as part of his PERSON on Thursday, Congress vice-president PERSON asked why PERSON Minister PERSON had not given a speech on loans waived by his government.
Reminding the gathering that the UPA government had waived farmers loans worth around Rs 70,000 crore, Rahul said that Congress leaders including him, the then Prime Minister PERSON as well as party president PERSON had held a big rally to inform the public about loan waivers.
In past two-and-half years, GPE has waived GPE  1.1 lakh crore against our GPE 70,000 crore, said Rahul.
He told those capitalists that if you make me the Prime Minister, I will do what I did in GPE in the whole of GPE, Rahul said.
Training his guns on the family-led Samajwadi Party government in the state, PERSON said, Uttar Pradesh will not have a government of just 15 persons.
NAGPUR: In a veiled warning to the opposition, chief minister PERSON on Sunday said his government would expose all wrongdoings made in their tenure of 15 years, due to which the farmers were committing suicides.
On GPE, Fadnavis said, he would soon realized that he was wrong, while on PERSON letter he said, he was yet to read it.
Fadnavis said such mistakes wont be repeated.
Chief minister PERSON says one thing and the cooperation minister says the opposite.
Blaming the banks for the mess, Fadnavis said the government had already inked a pact with them for data validation of beneficiaries, and they would be completely responsible for any error.
Kumaraswamy had said Sunday that he was at the mercy of the Congress and not the  6.5 crore people of Karnataka ashis party had not received the full mandate which it had sought.
Kumaraswamy said he and Deputy Chief Minister PERSON will discuss the issue with Congress president PERSON.
Slamming the BJP for observing the black day, PERSON leader PERSON said, Having no concern for public is BJPs style of functioning.
Farm Minister PERSON said his government had yet to hear from farm leaders but was ready to listen.
But I cant sit idle, so PERSON have to borrow more to grow something else, PERSON said.
There will always be organisations with a following of a few thousand, Singh told reporters at a press conference when asked about the agitation.
Congress MLA PERSON said the BJP has been ridiculing the distressed farmers instead of solving their problems.
It requires some unusual deeds to appear in the media, Singh told reporters at a press conference in GPE.
PERSON said that the Modi government only seemed interested in appeasing the rich industrialists who were fleecing the country.
(Express photo/File) PERSON said that the Modi government only seemed interested in appeasing the rich industrialists who were fleecing the country.
PERSON said that the Modi government only seemed interested in appeasing the rich industrialists who were fleecing the country.
Virtually kicking off his party's campaign for the Assembly elections due towards the end of the year, PERSON said if the Congress comes to power in MP, those responsible for the death of the six farmers would face strict action within 10 days.
PERSON said people of the country are his first priority, party workers come second and Congress leaders come third.
My speech was good but I got no response (from the government), PERSON told reporters as he exited parliament after speaking on the agrarian crisis that was pending from the first phase of the budget session.
I have no hatred towards anybody, Mr. PERSON said.
Curse exorcised: CMBy visiting Chamarajanagar on nine occasions since he became the Chief Minister, Siddaramaiah on Saturday said he had exorcised the curse surrounding a visit to the town by the Chief Minister.
NCP chief PERSON said, The party is fully behind Bhujbal.
Pawar said he would discuss the farmers problems with the state and central governments and try to find a solution without politicising it.
Pawar said the more he tried to grapple with the issue, the more he was flummoxed.
To a question about NCP leaders like PERSON, Sunil Tatkare and PERSON being probed by the ACB, PERSON said, Anybody can see the grandeur of Maharashtra Sadan that GPE built in GPE.
Most of the other suicides have taken place either due to poverty or other causes, farm activist PERSON said.
Explaining the circumstances under which he had to resign as Chief Minister that led to the formation of Congress-JDS coalition government, Mr PERSON said although legislators from different political parties were ready to join BJP, because of paucity of time, we had to face the setback.
Speaking about differences between the Congress and PERSON, Mr PERSON told his partymen that the two parties were fighting among themselves and their government was likely to fall.
Noting that BJP and its workers had worked with confidence of winning 130-135 seats in the May 12 assembly elections, Mr PERSON said, Even when there was pro-BJP wave across the state, because of our own mistakes, we could not win 130-135 seats.
Yeddyurappa said BJP would stand by the people and expose the corruption (File)Opposition BJP on Monday regretted that Karnataka Governor PERSON's address to the joint session of the legislature was mum on the farm loan waiver by the JD-S-Congress coalition government.
Terming the Governor's address a bundle of lies and false claims of the coalition government, Mr PERSON said the tone of the speech indicated that Chief Minister PERSON was doubtful of his survival owing to huge discontentment in the Congress on supporting the JD-S, which won only 36 seats in the May 12 assembly election.
Noting that an unstable government was a clear sign of failed attempts to diffuse the crisis, Mr PERSON said as a responsible opposition, the BJP would stand by the people and expose the corruption of the coalition government.
BS YEddyurappa said they will go in teams across the state to address several pressing issues.
(File)BJP leaders in Karnataka would soon undertake state-wide tours to highlight the alleged failure of the Congress-JDS coalition government in fulfilling poll promises and issues concerning the state, party state unit chief BS Yeddyurappa said today.
The SGPC and PERSON were created to protect the interests of the Sikh community and not to be the personal jagir (property) of a family, says PERSON.
Badal said at the Kabaddi World Cup that he does not know how to play the game but he knows how to play siyasat di kabaddi.
However, state government has plans to conduct the survey, said PERSON, head of the economics department at Punjabi University.
Agriculture minister PERSON said: We have been maintaining records of all suicides on our own since 2011, so there is no need for a fresh survey.
Terming the rail roko agitation by farmers as unfortunate, Punjab chief minister PERSON said the state government was ready to accept every genuine demand of the peasantry.
But for realising the slogan of 'PERSON, PERSON, the plight of farmers should also be addressed, Badal said.
Bin maange moti mile, maange mile na bheek (sometimes you get everything without even asking while you don't get anything even if you beg), Badal said.
Agriculture minister PERSON said: We have been maintaining records of all suicides on our own since 2011, so there is no need for a fresh survey.
Badal said a panel for farmers cause would be a real tribute to PERSON Jai Prakash Narayan.
Badal said the life and philosophy of the Lok Nayak was a lighthouse for the entire countrymen.
Badal said JP gave a call of total revolution which motivated the entire country.
Badal said the GPE movement became the biggest threat to PERSON after which she imposed Emergency to suppress the democratic movement.
But now the country has ushered in a big change by electing a government under the leadership of Narendra Modi, which is working tirelessly to fulfil the dreams of national heroes such as GPE, Badal said.
Replying to another query, Badal said PERSON did not have a single drop of surplus water for any state.
Speaking on the pardon granted to the GPE PERSON chief, Badal said PERSON was the supreme body of the Sikhs, adding that the SAD didnt interfere with its decisions.
The Prime Minister gave a patient hearing and assured to resolve the pending issues of the state to maintain the pace of development and growth in GPE, PERSON told reporters here on the sidelines of a cabinet meeting.
We want to make GPE a big hub of electronics manufacturing, Prasad said.
Security concerns are more important than the Home Ministerwe want to know by what time the National Population Register will be ready, party chief spokesperson Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters here.
Disclosing this to the media here on Wednesday, UIDAI Deputy Director General PERSON said the authority would begin the exercise on a trial basis across the country on May 1, before taking it up in earnest on May 15.
To bridge the gap, it was decided to develop a special software for them, PERSON said.
1.7 million cardsSaying that there has been an improvement in the frequency in generating GPE cards per day ever since it was launched in 2010, GPE said  1.2 million GPE cards were generated every day presently.
UIDAI Deputy Director General PERSON said that the proposed centres require enrolment kits, which cost Rs  1.5 lakh each.
It is yet to be decided whether we should hire staff or train the existing personnel, PERSON said.
PERSON said errors committed at data uploading level would be monitored strictly and each error would cost the operator a penalty of up to Rs 500.
Dalwai in his reply said that the money spent on the project is subject to audit by the PERSON and Auditor General (CAG)Prabhakar said that payments under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) can be accounted for and it will be sent directly to the beneficiaries accounts, which can be operated by the beneficiaries using their GPE cards.
PERSON, Deputy Director PERSON of UIDAI, responding to the percentage of enrolment in the district, said, there were no surprises in the rate of enrolment observed in the district.
We are in discussion with Food and Consumer Affairs Ministry for this, Prasad told reporters here.
So these realities are known, Prasad said.
That is why the people have brought us to power, Prasad said.
We're committed to the quality of every enrollment, said PERSON, deputy director general, Unique identification Authority of GPE.
, said PERSON.
Those whose GPE card has been delayed in delivery can log on to the UID website and key in their enrolment number and take a print of their e-GPE card, which is as valid as the GPE card itself, said PERSON.
We don't have any direct control over PERSON as it is been covered under NPR by the census department, said GPE.
Everyone will get a chance'Ashok GPE, deputy director general, told PERSON: As of now, India Post which is a registrar of GPE has opened a few counters but public response is overwhelming.
Parrikar also asked Directorate of planning, statistics and evaluation and other government departments to upload all the necessary information on their websites for the benefit of general public.
Parrikar had said that he would not like to jump into national politics and that he would rather retire from PERSON.
Taking into account the experience, they will submit the final report by the end of this (financial) year, finance minister PERSON said today.
Jaitley said the UIDAI had been conceptualised by the previous UPA dispensation and the NDA government is putting it to use with 98 per cent adults or more than 108 crore people in GPE having been issued GPE number.
Jaitley said the government will achieve the tax collection target of a record GPE 17 lakh crore as provided in the Revised Estimate.
The effect is going to be on the Centre and state governments which will save thousands of crore, PERSON said just before the measure was adopted by a voice vote.
PERSON then told the House that his source was PERSON website itself.
According to experts having an open fire in the kitchen is like burning 400 cigarettes an hour, Mr. PERSON said.
The PERSON will be introduced in the current Budget Session of Parliament, Mr. PERSON said.
Drabu said the Proviso-3 of the Presidential Order clearly states that notwithstanding anything contained in this order, the powers of J&K as per Section-5 of the Constitution of State, shall remain intact.
Presenting the government's view, Finance Minister PERSON said the government will ensure adequate safeguards for protecting the special constitutional position of GPE and Kashmir as enshrined in Article 370 of the Indian Constitution.
Drabu said in the absence of an alternative trading link, J-K is literally integrated with mainland Indian market".
From 28% the rate of GST should be decreased to 18% for auto parts and car accessories and 12% for tractor parts, said PERSON, convener of AAP's GPE trade wing.
B T Manohar, chairman, Taxation Committee, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said every tax invoice should provide details about Central GST (which will be levied by the cental government) and PERSON (which will be levied by state government).
GPE, president, Clothes and Readymade Garment Traders Association, GPE, said a new model, mastani midi, a womans garment comprising a set of three pieces, was moving fast.
Elaborating on the issue, Commerce Secretary PERSON said the Department of Commerce has been taking up this matter with the Department of Revenue (DoR).
Similarly, PERSON finance minister PERSON said the GST council needed to ensure that there is no increase in the price of farm goods, which have been exempted from the new levy.
Abhimanyu said  79.98% applicants had been logged in successfully in Kurukshetra,  74.84% in GPE,  79.51% in GPE,  78.52% in GPE (Narnual),  78.19% in GPE,  70.84% in Kaithal,  76.05% in PERSON,  73.03% in PERSON,  78.29% in Hisar,  70.67% in GPE,  77.11% in GPE,  70.39% in GPE,  72.92% in PERSON,  81.69% in GPE and  62.26% in PERSON.
Given that input costs rose at a softer pace, a whopping 96 percent of goods producers kept their selling prices unchanged over the month," said His PERSON economist PERSON.
With the impact of demonetisation largely over and the GST unlikely to substantially derail consumer spending, IHS Markit forecast real GDP growth to hit  7.3 per cent for 2017- 18 as a whole," GPE said.
Speaking to The Indian Express later, Naik said, The Governors address has significance, particularly after Assembly elections.
We have conducted surveys with different bodies representing different trader communities over the last 15 days and have forwarded our recommendations to the Deputy Chief Minister and Finance Minister PERSON, said PERSON, convenor of the Aam Aadmi Partys Trade Wing.
Those dealing in commodities such as footwear want to be included in the slab of under six per cent, spare part dealers in the 12 per cent slab and those dealing in consumables such as sweets and bakers to be under the six per cent slab, Mr. PERSON said.
Brijesh Goyal, convenor of the AAP Trade Wing, said that while both the Centre and State government had reached an agreement on the broad contours of the conditions of the PERSON, the provisions of dual control were yet to be agreed upon.
Representatives apprised Mr. PERSON that they were in favour of being under the jurisdiction of the State government instead of the Centre, said Mr. PERSON.
Mr. PERSON said that some representatives said that those generating an annual turnover of up to GPE. 1.5 crore should come under the State.
Most representatives, said Mr. PERSON, said that their experience in dealing with State tax authorities over the last 25 years would make their further association with representatives of the State tax regime more convenient and fruitful than with the Centres.
Mr. PERSON was in agreement with their [traders] demands and assured them that he would bring up their concerns at the next meeting of the GST council on December 22 and 23, where the issue of jurisdiction will be discussed, said Mr. PERSON.
Brijesh Goyal, convenor of the AAP Trade Wing, said that while both the Centre and State government had reached an agreement on the broad contours of the conditions of the PERSON, the provisions of dual control were yet to be agreed upon.
Representatives apprised Mr. PERSON that they were in favour of being under the jurisdiction of the State government instead of the Centre, said Mr. PERSON.
Mr. PERSON said that some representatives said that those generating an annual turnover of up to GPE. 1.5 crore should come under the State.
Most representatives, said Mr. PERSON, said that their experience in dealing with State tax authorities over the last 25 years would make their further association with representatives of the State tax regime more convenient and fruitful than with the Centres.
Mr. PERSON was in agreement with their [traders] demands and assured them that he would bring up their concerns at the next meeting of the GST council on December 22 and 23, where the issue of jurisdiction will be discussed, said Mr. PERSON.
Badungar said, The Union government has not responded to our first letter yet.
refund in case of export of taxable goods or services without payment of tax under bond or letter of undertaking, shall be granted on the basis of a prescribed formula," said GPE.
The GST policy wing is planning to come out with a circular clarifying on the zero-rating status of such Duty Free shops and circular may also outlay a detailed procedure of claiming refund of the taxes so paid," Mohan said.
The bills very clearly specify that GST would be charged on any lease of land or letting out of the building or construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof, where whole or any part of consideration has been received before issuance of completion certificate or its first occupation," Nangia & Co Director PERSON said.
PERSON, Director at tax consultant Nangia & Co, said: "GST is the biggest change that our country would see in last 50 years.
I am ecstatic that there would be no levy of GST on services rendered by Government, Reserve Bank of India, public conveniences, educational institution, services relating to agriculture, transmission or distribution of electricity, renting of residential dwelling for use as a residence, burial, healthcare, specified schemes of general insurance etc, Mohan said.
Nangia & Co Director PERSON said, "Government is working enthusiastically and is moving with lightening speed in hitting bull's eye for April, 2017".
Initially, 229 broad categories were notified to be taxed at 28 percent, today we have only 51 items, one of which still remains is e-rickshaw tyres, Mohan said.
Because the Centre wants to create a pool for compensation, the cess rate will likely come to between 1-2 per cent," Nangia & Co Director PERSON said.
Our argument is that the exemptions given in VAT be continued in the GST regime also, said Finance Minister PERSON.
Mr. PERSON said that the issue would be raised at the GST Council meeting.
Finance Minister PERSON on Saturday said he would raise the issue of granting exemption to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) under the proposed Goods and Services Tax (GST) at the GST Council meeting in GPE on Sunday.
Addressing the media, Mr. PERSON said the GPE, being a premier religious institution, had been granted immunity under VAT, which was under the purview of the State government.
Mr. PERSON said he would take to the notice of Union Finance Minister PERSON, who is also Chairman of the GST Council, the representations he received from various institutions, including the GPE, seeking exemption under the GST.
Finance Minister PERSON on Saturday said the State government was sparing no efforts in seeking total exemption to the GPE from the GST registration.
Addressing a seminar on Compliance procedures under GST organised by the Federation of Andhra Pradesh and PERSON of Commerce and Industry (FTAPCCI) here, Mr. PERSON said GST had not yet been fixed for 10 commodities.
Addressing a press conference at the Secretariat on Friday, Mr. PERSON said the Central government would compensate for the loss incurred by the GPE due to the rolling out of the GST.
Mr. PERSON said there was a reduction in effective rates on several goods under the GST, but there was no corresponding fall in the prices of goods.
Mr. PERSON said the government would set up MSME Authority to focus on and improve the performance of MSMEs, revive, sick industries and support their credit needs.
Mr. PERSON, in a statement on Monday, said the three parties were maintaining stoic silence on the audio tapes for reasons best known to them.
Finance Minister PERSON said here on Friday that the government is conscious of the issues plaguing the real estate sector and would take necessary steps such as speedier processing of permits and taking a fresh look into the high power tariff and storm water drain charges being levied on the industry.
Mr. PERSON, speaking to newspersons after the meeting, said that Mr. PERSON had also assured on compensating the losses to be incurred by GPE on account of GST implementation.
Mr. PERSON said they had urged the Centre to make budgetary allocations for PERSON and Mission Kakatiya as recommended by PERSON and GPE. 10,000 crore for GPE project, one of the biggest projects being executed by the State.
Speaking at the meeting of Group of Ministers (GoM) on the information-technology related issues of GST in Bengaluru on Saturday, PERSON Minister PERSON said the details of GST tax payers, particularly of those who have filed returns, were not accessible to GPE now.
The compensation would be paid to only those GPE with a growth under 14 per cent, Mr. PERSON said in his reply to the debate on the Appropriation Bill which was later passed by the Council.
On huge difference between budget and revised estimates by PERSON government every year, Mr. PERSON said the difference was only 15 to 16 per cent as in other GPE.
The PERSON government has also decided to call an Assembly session this month to pass the GST Bill, PERSON Finance Minister PERSON said on Wednesday.
The allocation for the three sectors constitutes 26% of the overall budget, said Finance Minister PERSON.
A beaming Mr. PERSON, immediately after presenting his fifth budget to the State Assembly on Thursday, told a media conference that the budget was focussed on finer aspects of farming with the closure of loan waiver for farmers amounting to Rs. 17,000 crore last year.
Mr. PERSON said the budget belied expectations of people that it would be a popular one with an eye on elections next year.
Finance Minister PERSON, announcing the breakthrough in the talks about GPE and Services Tax (GST) with Union Finance Minister PERSON, said that those goods attracting tax between nine per cent and 15 per cent would be now taxed at 12 per cent in GPE.
We need to recognise the changes taking place and reorganise our existing administrative set-up to meet the requirements of the new tax regime, said CBEC Chairman PERSON in a communication to officials.
It will be the same, thats our belief, and it will increase a bit, CBEC Chairman PERSON told IANS in an interview here.
Shah said that the fitment of goods and services in the four tax slabs -- 5%, 12%, 18% and 28% -- is a work in progress.
We will suggest, but all decisions will be taken by the Council because, after all, it is a question of revenue for the states and GPE told IANS.
Shah said that he hoped the GSTN portal is able to handle the massive rush that it will see post July 1.
All existing legacy issues may continue for some time, Shah said.
Shah said they will not require any additional staff as of now.
In a statement, its president PERSON and senior president PERSON said that the trade and industry was apprehensive that when the GST was introduced under single country, single market, single tax principle, the revenue neutral rate might be fixed by individual GPE at a higher scale.
Thus, instant action should be taken on information on tax evasion and informers should be honoured and suitably rewarded as in the Income Tax Act, said president PERSON in the release.
Chamber president PERSON said the exemption limit for taxation purpose might be enhanced to GPE 50 lakh.
Praising the Value Added Tax (VAT) which was introduced during the Congress rule, Chidambaram said, We rolled out VAT in 2005-06 but there was no protest in country because we worked very hard in preparing it.
They became wise post 2014 and decided to implement it, said GPE.
About states disagreeing and joining the second wave of GST reform, Chidambaram said that even when UPA had implemented VAT, some had not joined initially and they had joined later, and so eventually all states will fall in line.
But much will depend on the next three months, how the government and industry smoothen the overall transition (to GST)and the compliance," said PERSON of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy in Delhi.
GPE is not only looking at increasing its manufacturing share in GDP to 25 per cent, but also eyeing high value manufacturing to graduate out of low-tech, low value-added manufacturing, said PERSON of the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.
September data painted an encouraging picture as the sector continued to recover from the disruptions caused by the introduction of the GST in July," said PERSON, economist at IHS Markit and author of the report".
We have received 43 complaints so far in GPE where benefits of lower tax rates under the GST regime were not passed on to consumers," state finance minister PERSON said while talking to reporters here today.
PERSON, Leader, Indirect Tax, BMR and Associates LLP, said, "GST Bills as passed by PERSON should provide enough material to India Inc to start implementing GST for the business".
Now it is important that supporting rules are finalised by the GST Council in its next few meetings, and should be released at the earliest to enable the businesses to align their compliance and regulatory processes, PERSON said.
Limiting the zero rating to food grains or agri products may not lead to any significant reduction on tax costs for the consumers, said PERSON, Leader, Indirect Tax, BMR & Associates LLP while reacting to GST rate announcement here on Thursday.
The Finance Minister must have done some cost-benefit analysis before committing to the states about compensation, N R Bhanumurthy, Professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said.
Beginning April 20, intra-state e-way bill will be rolled out in six states  Bihar, GPE, GPE, Madhya Pradesh, PERSON and GPE, PERSON told reporters here.
The PERSON has invited suggestions from industry and tax experts within a week, which will be incorporated in a report and tabled before the GST Council, Modi said.
In a week, a draft will be prepared and presented before the GST Council, which will take the final call on returns simplification, PERSON said, adding that till the new system is implemented, GSTR-3B summary return form will continue.
In the meeting today, it was decided that Infosys will send a team to each and every state to coordinate with state tax administrators to resolve GSTN glitches faced by them," Modi told reporters after chairing the meeting of the GoM here.
The PERSON will meet one more time as there are issues to be discussed, including the benefits or losses to the exchequer, PERSON said, stating that the PERSON will meet again in 10 days and finalise its view, which would then be recommended to the GST Council.
PERSON, till a few years ago, was one of the very few states with a surplus in the revenue account and it was well within the parameters prescribed by the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act," said PERSON .
It is within safe limits with regard to interest and debt," said PERSON.
This (2017-18) budget would be presented in most uncertain times and is unpredictable," NR Bhanumurthy, professor at National Institute of Public Finance and Policy (NIPFP), told ET.
Given that input costs rose at a softer pace, a whopping 96 percent of goods producers kept their selling prices unchanged over the month," said His PERSON economist PERSON.
Many will question how deep an impact the GST will have on the economy in the near- and long-term, firms seem convinced that prospects will brighten as the new tax regime becomes clearer," said PERSON.
Going forward, GPE said, upcoming PMI releases will show whether underlying conditions remain on the downside or if July's contraction was a temporary blip.
As such, overall optimism slipped to a three-month low," GPE said.
With the impact of demonetisation largely over and the GST unlikely to substantially derail consumer spending, IHS Markit forecast real GDP growth to hit  7.3 per cent for 2017- 18 as a whole," GPE said.
PERSON, partner in AMRG and Associates said the CBEC had in September 2017 allowed businesses to rectify errors in GSTR-3B returns while filing GPE and GSTR-2 of the same month.
As per the new circular, Mohan said "all rectifications can be made in the same month's GPE-3B and GPE -1".
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said tourist refund claims are a great inbound tourism marketing technique with a low cost to the exchequer".
Matching such state-of-the-art systems could be a technological nightmare for Indian counterparts," Mohan said.
Initially, 229 broad categories were notified to be taxed at 28 per cent, today we have only 51 items, one of which still remains is e-rickshaw tyres, Mohan said.
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said GST would make dutyfree shops uncompetitive via-a-vis those situated outside the airport.
The GST policy wing is planning to come out with a circular clarifying on the zero-rating status of such Duty Free shops and circular may also outlay a detailed procedure of claiming refund of the taxes so paid," Mohan said.
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said the issue could be resolved if GST compliance structure is simplified and government programmes are designed to achieve a robust digital literacy in the long run".
This could address the worries of the exporters if this manned intervention is operated timely," Mohan said.
Nangia & Co Director (Indirect Taxation) PERSON said July 1 looks like the "best case scenario" for GST implementation as by then the industry will also be able to migrate into the new taxation regime.
This loss will, however, be compensated by the Government of GPE from the fund created under the Goods and Services Tax (Compensation to States) Act, 2017, GPE told the House.
Lot of hard work seems to have been put in for arriving at broader consensus with the states, said PERSON, leader - indirect tax, PwC India.
Enabling provisions have been made for the introduction of an anti-profiteering measure, wherein a mechanism may be established to monitor whether the benefit arising to industry on account of GST is passed on to the consumers, said PERSON, partner and leader (indirect tax) at PwC.
The only silver lining was that substantial progress seems to have been made on discussions with respect to laws and broad consensus was reached for provisions up to Chapter 20 (out of total 27 chapters), said PERSON, partner and leader indirect tax, at consultancy firm PwC.
Having missed the winter session, one would hope that Centre and states would be able to work together to make it happen in the budget session.
However, for real benefit of GST to be realised, it is important that supply chain bottlenecks are reduced, said PERSON, partner and leader indirect tax at consulting firm PwC.
But I expect them to start now, said PERSON, who heads the indirect tax practice at consulting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers.
One could expect that voice for September 1 implementation would get stronger over next few days," said PERSON, partner and leader for indirect tax at consulting firm PwC.
Further changes to this draft cannot, therefore, be ruled out," said PERSON of PwC.
Government should consider some measures to ensure that 'arrest powers' are not abused by the tax officials," said PERSON, leader-indirect tax at PwC India.
The government has legitimate expectations that restaurant prices should go down, although for bigger ones the reduction may be relatively lower because of input credit loss," said PERSON, indirect tax leader, PwC.
Therefore, a vertical division on an agreed ratio seems to be more viable," said PERSON, partner and indirect tax leader at PwC.
This raises many questions, said SGPC president GPE, who was here to attend PERSON birth anniversary celebrations.
Slamming the central government for denying that it has any rare manuscripts or literature allegedly taken by the army from the Sikh reference library during the Operation Bluestar in 1984, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) chief PERSON on Sunday said the Centre is lying on the issue and its latest response is contradicting its earlier statements.
Badungar said, Those who were part of the conspiracy behind the missing Sikh literature from the library have confessed their offence.
Badungar said the directorate was working on a temporary basis and the SGPC wanted to make it a permanent body to make it more active.
If not a new e-way bill has to be generated.
The council will also deliberate on the Centre retaining its power to assess 11 lakh service tax filers.
PwC India leader (indirect tax) PERSON said, "It is encouraging to see that within four days of the assent of the Constitution amendment bill by the President, the government has approved the setting up of the GST council and the first meeting of the council is to be held within 10 days of the cabinet approval".
PERSON, "The idea of not putting rate caps in the constitution is pragmatic considering the dynamic business environment which may demand future changes in the GST rate".
This is 58 per cent of the total cess revenue of Rs 15,060 crore in the two months, GPE Deputy Chief Minister PERSON said.
GST Council has complete flexibility to do so and will do so I am sure, Shah said at an PERSON event here.
Shah said that the GST Council has to take into consideration the range of products under GST and the political compulsion of every state while taxing them.
TNCCI president PERSON, in a press release, said that the apart from exempting essential commodities, there has been a proper fitment of other items under the various tax rates of 5%, 12%, 18% and 28% under GST.
August's PMI results showed that manufacturers in GPE recovered quickly from the sharp slump that followed the introduction of the goods & services tax, said PERSON, principal economist at IHS Markit and the author of the report.
GPE: Th e Centre will share the draft model GST law with the states tomorrow as it prepares for the rollout of Goods and Services Tax (GST) from April 1 next year, CBEC Chairman PERSON said today.
By tomorrow we will share the model GST law with the states which has been redrafted after taking into account the comments of stakeholders, Shah said while inaugurating the CBEC pavilion at the GPE.
Stating that both the Centre and states are committed to ensuring that a taxpayer is assessed only once in the hands of one tax administration, Shah said that the GST was conceived as a dual structure and the government does not want to convert that into "duel" assessment".
In effect, by saying that you cannot be there in a certain category of goods, you are disempowering me which we have our reservations about," Shah said at an event organised by industry body PERSON.
So the entire cross empowerment issue was, we empower each other to say that in case the state authorities look at SGST issue, they also look at CGST and vice versa," Shah said.
I am sure that issue will get resolved," Shah said, hoping for GST roll out from April next year.
It will be the same, that's our belief, and it will increase a bit," CBEC Chairman PERSON told IANS in an interview here.
Shah said that the fitment of goods and services in the four tax slabs -- 5 per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent -- is a work in progress.
We will suggest, but all decisions will be taken by the Council because, after all, it is a question of revenue for the states and the Centre," Shah told IANS".
Shah said that he hoped the GSTN portal is able to handle the massive rush that it will see post July 1".
All existing legacy issues may continue for some time," Shah said.
Shah said they will not require any additional staff as of now.
Teaotia said the Commerce Ministry is focusing on facilitating technology upgradation for boosting exports by bridging the gap between the leading R & D laboratories in the country and the industry and identifying specific products through which value addition can take place".
It has been close to 36 months of decline and I think in that context a growth of  9.6 per cent is a great change and we hope that this will continue to be the direction that we are able to follow," PERSON said.
Commerce Secretary PERSON said the two main export promotion schemes - Merchandise Exports from GPE Scheme (MEIS) and Services Exports from GPE Scheme (PERSON) - will continue post GST implementation but would be aligned with the new indirect tax regime.
Elaborating on the issue, Commerce Secretary PERSON said that the remaining 10 per cent will be subject to whatever verification revenue department is required to do.
Detailed rules in this regard will emerge later, said PERSON, leader of indirect tax at BMR & Associates.
Commerce Secretary PERSON on Monday said the Union Commerce Ministry would support PERSON governments policy to develop the State as a agriculture hub.
Valuation is a bit high, but the current uptrend may continue as FII (foreign institutional investors) inflows, led by good liquidity in the global market, continue, says Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services .
Continued outflow of foreign money will keep rupee on tenterhook while increasing GST collection and RBIs open market operation may soften the volatility," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
For the week ahead, IIP and CPI are the key data to watch for," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
Market had started off with a positive sentiment supported by consensus over the rollout of GST, but this trend could not be continued as the investors mulled over 100 bps cut in GDP (forecast) by IMF to  6.6% in 2016-17, said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.
While the board is seeking to redress these concerns we would seek your indulgence sir for resolution," Shah said in his speech.
We seriously believe that while I empower you, you cannot disempower me," CBEC chairperson PERSON said at an event organised by industry body PERSON".
So, the entire cross empowerment issue was, we empower each other in case the state authorities look at SGST issue, they also look at CGST and vice versa," Shah said.
Still, the best overall performance of the economy was recorded since October 2016, endorsing the standpoint that the economy is recovering from the implementation of the twin shocks of demonetisation and GST," GPE said.
Finance Minister PERSON said here on Sunday that the impending pay revision in State service would not trigger any financial crisis.
Dr. PERSON said that goods such as building materials, hospital equipment and computer hardware were being brought into the State as items meant for personal use paying nominal taxes.
The State's inability to finance its developmental plans with borrowings had less to do with finances and more with the Centre's conservative policies, Dr. PERSON said. 
Tax collection in the State is expected to touch 20% with the introduction of Goods and Services Tax (GST) regime from July 1, Finance Minister PERSON has said.
Dr. PERSON told reporters here on Friday that being a consumer State, the destination-based tax system would give a major boost to tax collection
I think it is better to let the people to know the real situation, Dr. PERSON had told a meeting with editors here the other day.
The crisis in Gulf countries is the major reason for financial crisis in the State, Finance Minister PERSON has told reporters here on Thursday.
Dr. PERSON also said that the government would interfere to make sure the availability of construction materials in the State.
Participating in a discussion on the State budget organised under the joint aegis of The Hindu, The Hindu-Business Line , PERSON, and the Gulati Institute of Finance and PERSON here, Dr. PERSON said the Finance Minister could have shed the conventional fiscal policy and become more adventurous by spending substantive sums for developing infrastructure facilities.
The government would institute an NRI chit fund in collaboration with the KSFE, Dr. PERSON told PERSON.
The State has demanded strong action to ensure that the Maximum Retail Price (MRP) of all goods is slashed while traders are introducing fresh stock to the market post-GPE and Service Tax (GST) regime, Finance Minister PERSON has said.
Historic town PERSON, which would be at the centre of these celebrations, is Shahkots neighbouring constituency.
Now as we have started the waiver despite odds against us we will continue providing assistance and will reach out to all 10.25 lakh small and marginal farmers out of total 17.50 farming families in Punjab.
He said while Punjab was giving waiver of GPE 2 lakh, the Maharashtra government had announced loan waiver of GPE 1.5 lakh, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh GPE 1 lakh each whereas Rajasthan and Karnataka government had announce waiver of GPE 50,000 each.
MANSA, PUNJAB: Launching the much-awaited controversial loan waiver scheme for farmers, Punjab chief minister PERSON on Sunday said his government would also waive loans of farm labourers.
Talking about the condition of agriculture in GPE, he said the traditional crops were not beneficial because the input cost was higher than output.
The work of laying or repairing link roads will be completed by March 31, 2019.
We will see what the 15th Finance Commission recommends in its report, Singh said.
No differences between GPE, PERSON): Dy GPETaking a cue from GPE, the GPE said he would ask small and marginal farmers to submit documents related to their debts to the deputy commissioners in their districts.
(File photo) Punjab Deputy Chief Minister PERSON Badal.
(File Photo) Punjab Chief Minister PERSON.
Manpreet and former Chief Minister PERSON along with Left parties recently floated the PERSON (United Front) ahead of the Assembly due early next year.
The three-hour rally, held on the Jagraon Sugar Mill grounds, attracted thousands from across the state and during GPE one-hour speech the audience remained in their seats although the programme was running behind schedule.
The PERSON are an ally of the INLD in the assembly elections.
The organisers of the congregation assert that the event is purely religious in nature and that it is being attended by Sikhs and Sikh leaders representing Panthic organisations not only in GPE and from other parts of the country, but from abroad also.
ADGP Law and Order PERSON was not available for comment despite repeated attempts.
I fail to understand what all this tall talk is about.
It was followed by spell of hail storm.
The chief minister said the final details would be worked out at official levels between both the countries.
(Source: File) Maharashtra Chief Minister PERSON.
So there is no question of my harbouring any chief ministerial aspirations, now or in future.
However, the budget allocation of Rs 7,850 crore for water resources ministry enabling it to complete 28 projects may not help in providing the quantum jump in enhancing irrigation potential.
The recommendations made in the reports of M S Swaminathan, Narendra Jadhav, Ranganath Mishra and Adarsh Mishra committees, which were commissioned by the previous government at the Centre and in the state, would be implemented.
At GPE village, where a cattle camp has been opened, he said, We acquired fodder from the neighbourhood and other states.
While Rs 58,862 crore was for crop loan, GPE crore was given for agriculture term loan.
Vishal Srivastav Rahul Gandhi gets a farmer to sign a kisan mangpatra in GPE on Thursday.
The word he used on a foreign soil about GPE does not behove GPE or the post of the Prime Minister, he said.
On Friday, proceedings began with the unanimous election of Congress leader PERSON as the new speaker, despite BJP MLA S Suresh Kumar having submitted his nomination.
The farm leader said loans taken from cooperative banks were much less than those borrowed from private banks.
I was also chief minister of Maharashtra , we never indulged in such activities.
Besides Captain PERSON, GPE, All-India Congress Committee leaders PERSON, PERSON and Rajinder Kaur Bhattal also accompanied GPE to the SDM office.
Expelled senior congress leader PERSON Expelled senior congress leader PERSONA Punjabiat Great Grand Alliance providing a viable, effective alternative to the ruling SAD-BJP combine and Opposition Congress in Punjab will be announced on August 15 at PERSON, former Congress leader PERSON said in GPE on Monday.
He accused Punjab Congress chief PERSON of ignoring Dalits in the party and giving an unsuitable response to a senior leader like PERSON and threatened to come out with facts and figures of the illegal wealth of GPE crore accumulated by him abroad on August 15.
He said the alliance could comprise the BSP, Left parties and others but did not disclose who all was he in touch with for the meet.
Talking about PERSON, PERSON said the movement will continue and not die a political death.
In one household, there is one debt amount, he said.
The country has about 12-14 crore farmers.
We wonder if (Prime Minister PERSON) Modi sees him as a poster boy for his proclamation of sabka saath sabka vikas, PERSON said.
We are fighting for his case as well.
Congress president PERSON also said workers should stay united to make their candidates win so that party can form government in Punjab.
The statement comes after difference of opinion between Hans Raj Hans and Charanjeet Channi at PERSON, PERSON, where Hans had publicly expressed his displeasure and even left the stage.
Doesnt it portray the lack of sincerity and commitment about the promises they made?
Asserting that this is not only a battle of getting GPE rid of the Badals and Majithia, he said, It is an issue of GPE, GPEi and GPEiyat which will not be allowed to be compromised by handing over the reins of the state to outsiders, who dont even know the P of GPE.
Addressing a Kisan Chetna Dharna organised by the partys PERSON here, he also sought to allay apprehensions about the feasibility of the debt waiver in view of Punjabs financial situation.
PERSON said that the Modi government only seemed interested in appeasing the rich industrialists who were fleecing the country.
Development, deteriorating law and order and nepotism But we will go to the people with GPE at the helm and ask for one more chance.
The student asked Rahul how the Congress would address unemployment problem while pointing out Modi government had failed to provide promised 2 crore jobs to youth.
PERSON continued his attacks on BJP and PM Narendra Modi in his campaigning.
Then why does he devote 50% of his speech time on Congress?
The Congress president-elect said in multiple rallies that he was confident of winning GPE election with support from people of GPE.
I have been with him for past three months and have witnessed his vision, he said.
Mayannavar wanted to gift Rahul a lamb, but security personnel did not allow it.
When a Congress government is formed in Madhya Pradesh, count 10 days.
Anticipating non-repayment of loans, the state government has made it clear that those paying their dues will get bigger benefits through different schemes.
Soon after the panchnamas are done, we will release the funds.
This could include deposits of Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, City and Industrial Development Corporation and Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation, among others, which collectively have deposits more than Rs70,000 crore.
We might be out of power but we will not allow any leniency in our efforts in this direction, the Congress President said.
He has based his calculations on newspaper reports from the region.
Speaking after the PM, Badal carefully avoided any mention of FDI.
However, suspended JD(S) MLA H C Balakrishna decided to remain in his seat.
Modi did not forget to target Congress, calling it the PERSON of corruption while Badal said the coming elections were a jang-e-azadi (struggle for independence) to get the masses freed from the clutches of corruption of Congress leaders.
Didi pleaded with him but he clearly said if he accepts our request he would have to do so for other states too, said an MP present in the meeting.
Interestingly, GPE attack on PERSON comes at a time when the NCP president has been soft on GPE chief minister.
Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) President PERSON, PERSON MP PERSON, former MPCC chief PERSON, Youth Congress President PERSON and ex-Maharashtra Minister PERSON, among others, were present on the occasion.
Maharashtra Congress chief PERSON (Express file photo) Maharashtra Congress chief PERSON (Express file photo)Even though protest rallies by the Maratha community across Maharashtra have so far been apolitical, the Congress Tuesday targeted the BJP government over the row.
The decision to focus on the Vyapam scandal was taken at a meeting of Sonia and Rahul with party MPs.
PERSON is back on the campaign trail for the party after a two-year absence.
4.24pm: PERSON says the Congress government in Karnataka has delivered what it promised.
Our government in Karnataka has done what Modi government couldnt, says the Congress president.
11.30am: PERSON says yes, why not on being asked if he can be the prime minister in 2019 if the Congress emerges as the single largest party, ANI reports.
Do you know how Modi ji addresses him?
Number one was jobs, number two - corruption, (and) number three - farmers.
Modi, however, turned around the statement to his advantage.
While the BJP brushed aside allegations of quid pro quo, Trinamool leaders said it was the best time for the CM to reach out to Modi as BJP stands decimated in the state.
7.47pm: The previous governments did not care.
7.41pm: Congress lacks a forward looking vision for the development of Karnataka, says PERSON.
BJP is grounded and tied to the lives of the common man, PM says.
But the Congress is waxing eloquent about its performance in the past 5 years, he says.
People who should be in jail are sitting in Karnataka government.
Sadly, those who are born with a golden spoon, never understand the difficulties of poor.
Sadly, the Congress government has not followed his principles.
1.15pm: Congress leaders are thinking about what excuses they will make after the defeat in the state -- faulty EVMs or other such reasons, says the PM.
Attorney General PERSON told the apex court bench headed by Chief Justice of India TS Thakur that he had placed the affidavit on record in connection with the demonetisation issue.
Replying that the government cannot sit in every bank, Attorney General PERSON said people should bear 70 days of discomfort as a revolution was taking place in the country after 70 years.
When the court said it would hear the case only after verifying how this matter was listed before it, Attorney General PERSON, representing the banks, said my submission is that this matter should not go to another bench.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be will be reviewed after December 30.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be reviewed after December 30.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be reviewed after December 30.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be will be reviewed after December 30.
As soon as the House met, Speaker PERSON said that the Constitution Day would be observed tomorrow and referred to the 8th anniversary of GPE terror attacks.
As soon as the House met, Speaker PERSON said that the Constitution Day would be observed tomorrow and referred to the 8th anniversary of GPE terror attacks.
Jaitley said it was the BSP that was in fight with the BJP on several seats in the first phase but the situation, he added, might change in next phases.
We just wanted to convey to him that an outsider as candidate is not acceptable to us, said PERSON, an AAP worker.
Finance Secretary PERSON had earlier said withdrawal limits will be reviewed after December 30.
We will review the limits after December 30, finance secretary PERSON told TOI.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be will be reviewed after December 30.
Captain PERSON said the alleged account numbers which the AAP leader says are held by his family members were the same old numbers which his colleague PERSON had released in March 2016, and which he had already proved to be a sham.
Hitting out at the current Congress leadership, Jaitley said that if the current representative of the dynasty lacks the ability to lead the party or the country, the party suffers.
Jaitley further said parties which adopt dynastic succession as an alternative to merit-based leadership creation suffer from a natural disadvantage.
If it is judges (whose appointment is to be made in these tribunals and other bodies), please rest assured that it will be done in consultation with the judiciary, PERSON said.
It was an immature behavior of the person who went there, PERSON said.
PERSON told Yadav that the government was ready for discussion on both demonetisation and terror attacks.
I strongly deny the contents of this letter in so far it pertains to me To the best of my knowledge, the contents of the letter are untrue in so far as it relates to my tenure in GPE, PERSON said after going through the letter which was shown to him.
But recently, Chief Minister PERSON said that the BJP is willing to have an alliance with the Shiv Sena in the next polls.
And, as the saying goes, hum unko naani yaad dila denge (we will make him recall his origins), PERSON said in a lighter vein.
Speaker PERSON said obituary references could not be made today as combing operations by the army were on.
Talking about GPE, Modi said it was neither a government scheme nor a political party's manifesto nor a project.
GPE told the bench that various petitions have been filed challenging the demonetisation move before different high courts across the country and these matters should be transferred to the apex court or one of the high courts.
Chidambaram said the dispute resolution between the Centre and a state or between two states or between a group of states is not a matter on which the Constitution is silent".
Drabu said Article 370, which gives special status to J&K under Indian Constitution, should be protected and used for development of the state and for the empowerment of people.
Asked if Aam Aadmi Party candidates too qualified as clean, Nilekani said: While I agree that the AAP has brought in positive change, its really a party with the DNA of agitation.
Prime Minister PERSON (File Photo) Prime Minister PERSON (File Photo)ACCUSING THE Samajwadi Party (SP) government in Uttar Pradesh of indulging in discrimination (bhedbhav), Prime Minister PERSON said on Sunday that if a village gets a graveyard, it should get a cremation ground too; if there is electricity during PERSON, it should be there on Diwali as well; and if there is electricity during PERSON, it should be there on Eid too.
Yadavs say only those associated with the family are getting their rights, and the rest goes to Muslims), said PERSON.
the scheme will continue till October 14, PM Modi said in an address in Nagpur this afternoon.
the scheme will continue till October 14, PM Modi said in an address in Nagpur this afternoon.
which is great for cashless economy, the PM said today in Nagpur, even as he mimicked millennial users often portrayed with their heads downward flicking their fingers over their smartphones.
When asked whether the Modi government had borrowed his (Aadhar) legacy and pushed it as its own, Nilekani said:I'm happy that it's not only been adopted.
Nilekani later said it was time for his rival BJP's PERSON  to go.
I think time has come for him to go, Nilekani said without taking PERSON name in response to queries about what he thought of his prospects over his rival who had been representing the seat since 1996, winning it five consecutive times.
It's complicated, as you have to enter something and get an OTP (one time password), Nilekani said at the 28th International Conference on VLSI Design in GPE on Monday.
Who is the best MP to serve the constituency will be decided on April 17, Nilekani said at a meet-thepress programme.
You need a lot more physical effort that includes a door-to-door campaign, among other things, Nilekani said.
Nandan Nilekani said the GPE project cost is estimated at $3-$4 billion with each enrollment costing Rs 100-150.
When questioned about what scheme will be linked with Aadhar after LPG benefit transfer, UIDAI head PERSON said LPG itself would take lot of time to implement and other schemes would be taken up gradually.
In a presentation made at Monday's meeting, Nilekani said with each micro ATM or handheld machine costing about Rs 15,000, the cost of a 10-million-terminal network will work out to about Rs 1,500 crore.
BANGALORE: A governmental group is looking at how to converge two major national identification projects, Nandan Nilekani , chairman of the Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI), said here on Friday.
Nilekani also said giving IDs to people was a government project and it was open to scrutiny by Parliament, CAG, CVC or CBI.
Nilekani had said at an event in Bangalore, When the GPE government launched global positioning system (PERSON) in the 1990s, it was only for military purposes.
On the impact of the Supreme Court statement that the government should not make GPE mandatory for availing social benefits, Nilekani said that the matter was sub-judice and would come up for its final hearing on September 22.
Nearly 20 lakh people have been enrolled in the state and the process of enrolment is going on at a good pace, Nilekani said while admitting that two other states that come under GPE regional office of GPE and GPE have of late started picking pace.
The way you think about security in the open internet world is different from the way in which you view security in the card world, said Nilekani.
Finance Minister PERSON said the BAC report and the report on the governments business were separate issues.
I have already said that if the Congress gives me a ticket, I will stand for electionall I have said is that I am ready to stand on a congress ticket, Nilekani said.
Nilekani said that Congress is a party that is dedicated to long term reforms and his tenure so far in the government has been fully supportive.
Nilekani, who a day before entering the fray declared that he and his wife have assets worth Rs 7,700 crore, said peoples complaints revolved around the absence of their MP, and a lack of accountability when it came to addressing local challenges here, an apparent dig at GPE.
We will bring it (UIDAI PERSON) in the next Monsoon Session of Parliament instead of the forthcoming Budget Session, Planning Commission Deputy Chairman PERSON told PTI.
GPE, who was the chief guest at the GPE card issuing authority UIDAI's function here this morning, told his audience during the course of his speech that he had lost his unique identification card.
We are putting up a note before the cabinet shortly, Planning Commission deputy chairman PERSON told reporters.
While thanking GPE for bringing the issue to his notice, Prasad said, Sharing personal information is illegal.
It is a bill, not an ordinance, PM PERSON said.
According to an agency report, Union rural development minister PERSON said in GPE on Sunday there was a need to have parity of wage under MNREGA and the Minimum Wages Act.
While thanking GPE for bringing up the issue to his notice, Prasad said, Sharing personal information is illegal.
Prasad said as of now, the issue of challenge to Aadhar is pending before a constitution bench of the Supreme Court which had passed certain interim orders.
So these realities are known, Prasad said.
That is why the people have brought us to power, Prasad said.
we want to know by what time the National Population Register will be ready, party chief spokesperson Ravi Shankar Prasad told reporters here.
I am very confident that I will have the necessary support to bring the kind of changes that I want to, Nilekani told mediapersons on the sidelines of a talk for students at Christ University.
In the meeting, Nilekani reportedly said he could have become a PERSON member, but decided to contest the elections to serve the people of the constituency.
About using iris scan for issuing the unique identity number, Nilekani said it is a closed issue because the decision was taken one-and-a-half years ago.
PERSON - one among many ways to fight corruption: NilekaniLast updated: 19 GPEust, GPE, GPE 19 (IANS) 14:03 ISTThe PERSON bill which is before parliament is only one of the many ways of tackling the menace of corruption, said PERSON, chairperson of the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) Friday.
I think if we want to do something about corruption, we have to do it in a much broader manner, where the PERSON bill just becomes one of many things (tackling corruption), said Nilekani in an interview to CNN-IBN channel.
Asked about the Home Ministry's security concerns, Nilekani said: We will certainly.
UIDAI chairman PERSON has also said that the strategy of the project will be reviewed and its processes may be changed.
Speaking at an event organised by Unitus Capital, an investment bank, on Monday, Nilekani said 2009 was the year of transition.
Speaking at the Indus Entrepreneurs (TiE) Leapfrog Summit here on Friday, Nilekani said, In 2009, there was a WhatsApp movement in telecom, where it wiped out the sms business model.
Some of it is regulated, some of it is technology, some of it is design, and some of it is market, Nilekani said.
Asked what went wrong for him, Nilekani said I'm happy with the campaign we have run.
I am going to continue working actively for Bengaluru and for the party, Nilekani said, adding that he had no regrets and had a great time.
Nilekani, who will contest PERSON polls from Bangalore South, said he has submitted his resignation to Prime Minister PERSON.
Yes, I have resigned today, Nilekani told PTI, and added, he has sent in his resignation to Prime Minister.
When asked about his constituency, Nilekani said: Subject to getting the ticket from Bangalore South.
Speaking to reporters here, Nilekani said he has been meeting people in Bangalore.
GPE has asked only one question about Aadhar in Parliament, Nilekani has said, questioning his sudden concern.
To a query on rumours that the GPE was issued to migrants from neighbouring countries, Mr. PERSON said that it was not the UIDAIs concern.
Delivering his keynote address at the valedictory of the two-day all-GPE conference of directors of fingerprint bureaus in Bangalore on Tuesday, Mr. PERSON said though the data collected by the UIDAI is confidential, it can be shared on the basis of court orders and particularly for cases relating to national security.
Citing an example, Mr. PERSON said a GPE police team, armed with the court order, had sought help to trace a suspect and the victim of a kidnap case.
There is no sub-contracting allowed under the scheme, PERSON, Deputy Director-General of the UIDAI Regional Office in Bangalore, told The Hindu .
Mr. PERSON said that according to complaints, Global ID Solutions was claiming that it was authorised to appoint franchisees and was charging a non-returnable deposit of GPE.  2.5 lakh per kit.
On food and fertiliser subsidies, the current system will continue, Chidambaram said.
Addressing a seminar on GST conducted as part of the diamond jubilee celebrations of the Assembly for MLAs by the Institute of Parliamentary Studies and the Gulati Institute for Finance and Taxation here on Monday, Dr. PERSON said the State government had raised the demand at the GST Council meeting.
Dr. PERSON said these units should come up with innovative products to attract consumers.
However, such an Act could not be implemented through a government order, Dr PERSON said.
Briefing reporters after pre-budget consultations with traders and tax practitioners here on Wednesday, Dr. PERSON said the proposals for increasing infrastructure investment and leaving pensions and other schemes untouched would lead to a fiscal imbalance.
Kerala has asked the Centre to reduce the Goods and Services Tax (GST) rates for 24 items, Finance Minister PERSON told the Assembly on Tuesday.
More money has been set aside for the purpose, Finance Minister PERSON said in the Assembly on Thursday.
Once that is done, it creates conditions for implementing GST, PERSON, leader, indirect taxes at BMR Advisors, said.
This measure should significantly help in assuaging the concerns of inadequate readiness of GSTN being faced by the industry and confirms that preparedness of GSTN will not be a roadblock for the implementation of GST as was being anticipated by the industry, said PERSON , leader for indirect tax practice at consultancy BMR & Associates.
Televison channels and newspaper offices may be abuzz this week, leaving no stone unturned in deciphering every word PERSON says on Thursday, but how important is the budget for industrialists?
Taking on Prime Minister PERSON over last Novembers demonetisation exercise, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram said on Saturday he would have quit as finance minister if forced to implement the measure.
Delivering the lecture on the economy organised by the local trading community, Chidambaram said the prime ministers ambitious bullet train project between GPE and GPE should not have been a priority.
Appealing to the opposition parties to help and cooperate in passage of these bills, Naidu said the government is ready to discuss all issues and is committed to continuously reaching out to all parties to keep national interests above political interests.
Appealing to the opposition parties to help and cooperate in passage of these bills, Naidu said the government is ready to discuss all issues and is committed to continuously reaching out to all parties to keep national interests above political interests.
Replying to questions on Congress and some other parties pressing for amendments in the GST bill and whether the government is agreeable to them, Naidu said Parliament has to function even if these have to be approved.
Asked whether Kharge told him to talk to PERSON and whether the government has plans to talk to the Congress President and the Congress Vice President, Naidu said that he is following the norms by meeting leaders of different parties of both Houses but has no problem in meeting either PERSON or Rahul.
If required, if they suggest, I can go to the Congress President, Vice President and even General Secretaries, Naidu said.
Naidu said while 56 bills are pending 11 in PERSON and 45 in PERSON, he has also asked ministries to come up with at least 25 new bills.
(File photo) Naidu said while 56 bills are pending 11 in PERSON and 45 in PERSON, he has also asked ministries to come up with at least 25 new bills.
After a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs chaired by Home Minister PERSON that recommended the schedule for the session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister M Venkaiah Naidu told reporters that the session could also be extended or curtailed by two-three days depending on requirement.
Watch Video: Whats making newsEmphasizing that the GST bill is in the larger interest of the country, Naidu said, We have a wider support and we have enough numbers for GST but we would like to have all parties on board because it will have an effect on states.
Naidu said while 56 bills are pending 11 in PERSON and 45 in PERSON, he has also asked ministries to come up with at least 25 new bills.
Naidu told reporters that one day it was the National Herald issue, the next day it was a demand for the resignations of GPE, PERSON and PERSON, and the third day a demand for the ouster of V K Singh from the Union cabinet.
Parliamentary Affairs Minister PERSON PERSON said that the government wanted all parties on board for the GST bill.
(Source: PTI Photo) Parliamentary Affairs Minister PERSON PERSON said that the government wanted all parties on board for the GST bill.
The market is sailing through a consolidation path given the sentiment on stretched valuation & bargaining opportunity during consolidation," Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services said.
He said Brexit and the ensuing turbulence could have an adverse impact on sectors that had a high exposure to Europe and the GPE.
We have suggested this to the com mittee appointed by the government for MSME policy," said PERSON, senior vice president, GCCI.
The subsidy will be of great help as the cost of an IPO is around GPE 45 lakh," Patwari said.
The training will be provided by teams comprising representatives from the industry association, VAT, excise, custom and service departments, Sales Tax Bar Association and chartered accountants," said Shailesh Patwari, senior vice president of Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI).
Patwari said that the GCCI has also taken up a project to make hygienic washrooms on the highway from GPE to PERSON and Somnath.
Patwari said, "I hope to serve the trade and industry bodies across the state through my tenure".
Talking about GST, Patwari said, "As far as industry issues are concerned, at least for six months our focus will remain on the Goods and Services Tax (GST) due from July 1.
Nonetheless, the falls in confidence levels highlight no easy walk to stronger economic prosperity, Ms. PERSON said.
PERSON, professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said that since the next budget will be a pre-election year budget, the focus will obviously be more on social sectors, small-scale firms and creating employment.
PERSON, professor of economics at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said the  3.2% fiscal deficit target was estimated in a business-as-usual scenario.
In the backdrop of the industry's demand to reduce the proposed GST rates of 5 per cent, 12 per cent, 18 per cent and 28 per cent after demonetisation, CBEC chairman PERSON said the Centre and the states collected GPE 8 lakh crore from indirect taxes, minus customs duty, and the same level of revenue had to be collected in the GST regime.
Additionally, the rupee continued its strong momentum supported by foreign inflows in both equity and debt," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
GPE continued to taste bitterness in earnings due to high competition which is impacting the sentiment of the sector for the long-term," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
Meanwhile, a good set of monthly sales numbers for auto and Q1 results for blue-chips drove the broad indices into top gear," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
RBIs action will impact earnings potential for banks and finally impact investors expectation for FY18 earnings growth," Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services Ltd said.
Additionally, the rupee continued its strong momentum supported by foreign inflows in both equity and debt," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
Any positive signs will provide further push to the current trajectory," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.
Global markets remain volatile led by slid in oil prices due to signs of supply glut," Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services Ltd said.
PERSON, Director at tax consultant Nangia & Co, said: GST is the biggest change that our country would see in last 50 years.
Positive signals from Oppn for passage of Bills: VenkaiahHyderabad, Dec 20, 2015, (PTI) 14:44 ISTThe government has got positive signals from the opposition regarding passage of some important Bills in PERSON during the ongoing session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister PERSON PERSON said today".
We are also keen to pass them," Naidu told reporters here at a press conference.
Hitting out at Congress President PERSON and vie-president PERSON, Naidu said their party is playing "politics of vendetta".
Referring to the allegations of GPE Chief Minister PERSON against Finance Minister PERSON, Naidu said the allegations are highly motivated to divert people's attention from the "serious cases" against AAP government.
By Friday, we will come to some conclusion, Naidu told reporters here.
After a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on Parliamentary Affairs chaired by Home Minister PERSON that recommended the schedule for the session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister M Venkaiah Naidu told reporters that the session could also be extended or curtailed by two-three days depending on requirement.
Emphasizing that the GST bill is in the larger interest of the country, Naidu said, "We have a wider support and we have enough numbers for GST but we would like to have all parties on board because it will have an effect on states".
Naidu said while 56 bills are pending --11 in PERSON and 45 in PERSON, he has also asked ministries to come up with at least 25 new bills.
Naidu said there was a general consensus that Parliament should run smoothly.
The meeting also saw Trinamool Congress pushing for the passage of the GST bill, Naidu said.
Naidu said the customary all party meeting ahead of the session will take place on February 22 in which bills and other issues related to the Session will be discussed.
Naidu said all parties spoke in one voice that Parliament should function".
The need of the hour is also to end the politics of revenge and tit for tat," PERSON told reporters in Bengaluru.
Naidu said the government would talk to all parties and "explore how quickly we can do it".
I sincerely hope that it is not the view of the concerned parties, Naidu told reporters after the meeting of the CCPA.
Naidu said he was aware that the opposition parties had some issues and the government would walk the extra mile to accommodate them.
This has been our approach since assumption of office last year, Naidu said.
On the issue of growing intolerance, Naidu said the opposition should show some tolerance and allow debate in Parliament instead of protesting outside.
CCPA met today and decided to call winter session from November 26, which will continue till December 23 depending on the exigencies of business," Parliamentary Affairs Minister M Venkaiah Naidu told reporters after the meeting, which was attended by top leaders of the ruling alliance, including Finance Minister PERSON.
Naidu said that a two-day special sitting of both Houses will be held on November 26 and November 27 to commemorate the adoption of the the Constitution".
Hence, there will be no Question Hour in the House on the first two days," Naidu said.
Meanwhile, talking about the Bihar Assembly poll results, Naidu said that while he welcomes the popular mandate, he is "disturbed" by media reports that opposition parties in Parliament will now be more emboldened to unite and stall the government's Parliamentary agenda for the winter session".
It should not be interpreted as a mandate to obstruct Parliament," Naidu said.
Noting that Opposition parties may have some issue, Naidu said that the government is willing to walk the "extra mile" to accommodate them.
Naidu said that during the separate special sittings of both Houses of Parliament, a discussion will be held on the "Commitment to the Constitution" as a part of 125th birth anniversary celebration of PERSON and November 26 will be observed as 'Constitution Day' commemorating the acceptance of Draft Constitution on November 26, 1949".
What is necessary will be done as per the parliamentary practice," Naidu said.
In the first parliamentary party meeting during the Winter session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister PERSON PERSON told the members that provocative statements are being used by the anti-BJP forces to deflect the attention from Prime Minister PERSON's development agenda.
Naidu said he even indicated that the government was willing to advance the Budget Session to ensure passage of the GST Bill and the Real Estate Regulatory Bill.
They had raised some issues, which have been answered by Finance Minister PERSON, Naidu told reporters after meeting GPE.
Not only the gurdwaras but all shrines of other communities should also be given exemption from GST on the offerings for langar," Badungar said who was in GPE to attend a religious event at a local gurudwara.
Badungar said there were indications that the GST Council would waive off the tax but the issue was not even discussed in the meeting.
Badungar said the SGPC was born after a long Sikh struggle, and if the need arises, it would not desist taking to struggle against 'unfair tax.
Reiterating that the GST was 'God Service Tax', Badungar said, repeated pleas before the Prime Minister and the Union finance minister had failed to yield desired results.
Badungar said annual costs for langar items such as desi ghee, sugar and pulses comes to around GPE crore.
Badungar said the amount received towards 'karah parshad' was also subjected to GST.
SGPC chief secretary PERSON said the procurement bill of langar items like desi ghee, sugar and pulses came to around GPE crore annually.
Badungar said all purchases made at these Sikh shrines should be exempted from GST and requested the Union government to consider it.
In his letter, Badungar said the main income of the gurdwaras came from the offerings made by the pilgrims.
Badungar said, all langar items purchased at PERSON, GPE, PERSON, PERSON and PERSON, PERSON were exempted under the previous tax regime.
PERSON, a professor at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said that since the next budget will be a pre-election year budget, the focus will obviously be more on social sectors, small-scale firms and creating employment.
PERSON, professor of economics at the National Institute of Public Finance and Policy, said the  3.2% fiscal deficit target was estimated in a business-as-usual scenario.
Nangia & Co Director (Indirect Taxation) PERSON said July 1 looks like the "best case scenario" for GST implementation as by then the industry will also be able to migrate into the new taxation regime.
The bills very clearly specify that GST would be charged on any lease of land or letting out of the building or construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof, where whole or any part of consideration has been received before issuance of completion certificate or its first occupation," Nangia & Co Director PERSON said.
Nangia & Co Director PERSON said, "Government is working enthusiastically and is moving with lightening speed in hitting bull's eye for April, 2017".
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said the new e-way bill rules are applicable to a composition supplier".
Nangia and Co Director-Indirect Taxation Rajat Mohan said return filing under GST regime would necessitate much more data in terms of invoices, debit notes and credit notes that would be matched online".
After witnessing this extension of due date for filing service tax return, my concern is the government system might not be fully geared up for such large pool of tax payers and in terms of data requirement in returns," Mohan said.
Initially, 229 broad categories were notified to be taxed at 28 per cent, today we have only 51 items, one of which still remains is e-rickshaw tyres, Mohan said.
This seems to be homecoming of production capacity based taxation,' PERSON said.
Also, focus could be more on non-tax revenues which include services in the form of state educational institutions, sports facilities, electricity distribution, water supply and sanitation services," Mohan said.
Mohan said the government is eyeing world-class implementation of GST".
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said lower claim of tax credit could be due to multiple reasons, some of which would be genuine like delay in recording/processing of invoices, incorrect endorsement of GSTIN in GPE -1 by supplier, among others".
AMRG & Associates Partner Rajat Mohan said the circular should percolate down the chain and thereby streamlining detentions and seizures and pushing out an informal way of dealing things on the road.
I believe the government needs to pin these issues in the heart before the problems gets escalated and small businesses feel the heat of high tax compliance environment or start losing customers to competition," Mohan said.
Capt Abhimanyu also asked the Centre to give full CST (central sales tax) compensation to the states from the year 2013-14 onwards, relax their fiscal deficit limit to  3.5% of the GSDP (gross state domestic product), increase borrowing limits, encourage public expenditure on infrastructure, and put premium on growth and efficiency in the devolution of taxes.
Captain PERSON said the PERSON government agreed with the empowered committee recommendation that full GST compensation be paid at least for five years through an independent mechanism, which should be in-built in the constitution.
Captain PERSON said the state collected revenue to the tune of `1,000 crore a year on account of the purchase tax or VAT (value-added tax) on food grains; but under the GST regime, it had been proposed that the levy would not apply to food grains.
Haryana finance minister PERSON said the new tax regime is a revolutionary step which would bring about a positive change in the tax system.
Capt Abhimanyu said the government has identified about 2,400 government properties so far.
Presenting the government's view, Finance Minister PERSON said the government will ensure adequate safeguards for protecting the special constitutional position of GPE and Kashmir as enshrined in Article 370 of the Indian Constitution.
Drabu said the existing tax incentives under the industrial policy will be continued and the cross-LoC trade can be maintained in the current form".
Drabu said in the absence of an alternative trading link, J-K is literally integrated with mainland Indian market".
Unless the government sets up an effective mechanism for refund, the new rules will be seen draconian, said B T Manohar, chairman of states taxation committee of PERSON and member of Karnataka state GST advisory committee.
While the law restrains traders from changing the maximum retail price (MRP) inclusive of all taxes, there are no guidelines for repricing the commodities in accordance with the changed tax rates in the GST regime ," said BT Manohar, chairman of taxation committee and team GST of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry .
Without amendment to the Legal Metrology Act and proper guidelines for the pricing mechanism, re-pricing will be illegal even when traders and manufacturers enter into an agreement," said GPE.
While motor fuels are yet to be brought under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax (GST), the demand is that sales tax burden be reduced for now, said B T Manohar, chairman state taxation committee of PERSON.
The GST Council has given an option to the states to look into the GPE component and the state governments can take decision whether to levy or exempt it, depending on the priority of the sector," said B T GPE, taxation committee chairman at Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (FKCCI).
Without doing this, it would be unfair on the Centre's part to expect traders to be compliant and deny compensation," said B T Manohar, state taxation chairman and team GST of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (PERSON).
B T Manohar, chairman of taxation committee and team GST of Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries, said it is consumers' responsibility to ask for the invoice in the proper GST format so that they aren't cheated by vendors.
The markets for Hindi and English films are much bigger," said BT Manohar, taxation committee chairman, Federation Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries (PERSON)".
The Centre has appointed a group of n ministers to look into the technical snag.
We have sent a representation to this effect to the Council, said B T Manohar, chairman of state taxation committee of PERSON and member of the GST advisory committee to the government of Karnataka.
They were receptive to the new idea," said B T Manohar, chairman of PERSON taxation committee.
The markets for Hindi and English films are much bigger," said PERSON, taxation committee chairman, Federation Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries".
All traders are clear about their registration because of the programmes conducted on GST awareness by PERSON in coordination with the commercial tax department and other trade bodies," B T Manohar, chairman, state tax committee, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce & Industry (PERSON), said.
Karnataka started preparing even before the Parliament passed the GST Bill earlier this year, said B T GPE, taxation committee chairman of PERSON.
I hope the enrolment and migration will be a smooth affair," said B T Manohar, chairman of the taxation committee of the PERSON.
Without ARN, traders cannot get their GST Identification (GSTIN) which is required to raise the tax invoice and bill of sale.
We hope the GST Council clarify this soon and till such time, we suggest the jewellers make do with a simple delivery challan ," said B T Manohar, chairman of taxation committee, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industries.
The central government should immediately withdraw the GST on purchases made by the SGPC and other religious institutions that are doing community service of this magnitude," Prithipal Singh, a devout Sikh who has been doing voluntary service at the Langar Hall of the Golden Temple complex in GPE for the past nearly a decade, told IANS.
The commerce department is actively working on it but the time required by other departments and parliamentary procedures are outside our ambit," said Union commerce secretary PERSON here today.
The commerce ministry had entered into a consultative process with all the export promotion councils to understand the level of adaptation to the effects of demonetisation, Teaotia said.
I think that we need to take this as an opportunity for renewing the direction, for capitalising on the benefits that we can get from a far more transparent, far more open and let me say far less messy cash-based transactions, Teaotia said.
We have identified as part of this process several important industrial clusters, Teaotia said.
She said the government's legal team was evaluating the draft legislation.
Teaotia said multilateralism was making way for mega regional trade blocs in world trade.
Wipro and Infosys have proposed SEZs over  19.76 hectares and  20.14 hectares, respectively, and have paid GPE crore each to buy land from the state government.
We will sort out the remaining issues in the next meeting scheduled on February 18," said PERSON.
HYDERABAD: PERSON finance minister PERSON said on Tuesday that the state would suffer huge financial losses if the Centre brings petrol and diesel under the ambit of Goods and Services Tax ( GST ).
We will make a forceful argument again on June 30 at the final GST Council meeting before its roll out and make our case for 35 items we already represented to the Council about," Finance Minister PERSON told PERSON on Wednesday.
HYDERABAD: PERSON finance minister PERSON on Thursday said that the Centre has released Rs  455.6 crore towards CST (central sales tax) compensation due to the state.
While the total dues amount to GPE crore, PERSON said that the Centre had released Rs  455.6 crore as the first installment and the second installment was expected next year".
Rajender said that while supporting the implementation of GST (Goods and Services Tax), PERSON urged the Centre to exempt paddy, petrol and diesel from the new tax regime.
In a tweet, GPE asked whether "power" would now accept the truth".
Later talking to reporters, Chidambaram said the Congress was told to shut up when it flagged the weaknesses in the economy.
Responding to a question, Chidambaram said the Congress was not using Sinha's views (politically), and added that the BJP leader's statements only "coincides" with what the opposition party has been saying.
RAJKOT: Assailing Prime Minister PERSON over demonetisation, senior Congress leader P Chidambaram today said he would have quit as finance minister if forced to implement the measure.
Delivering the lecture on the economy organised by the local trading community, Chidambaram said the prime minister's ambitious bullet train project between GPE and GPE should not have been a priority.
Chidambaram on Saturday had said that the demand in Kashmir Valley is to respect in letter and spirit Article 370.
As part of these efforts the government has convened all-party meeting and also formed an all-party panel to build consensus on the issue, Drabu said on Tuesday.
GPE and Kashmir chief minister PERSON (Express photo by PERSON) GPE and Kashmir chief minister PERSON (Express photo by PERSON)GPE and Kashmir, the only state which failed to meet the June 30 timeline for the GST rollout, is likely to clear the legislation on the indirect tax regime by July 6, its Finance Minister PERSON said in GPE on Friday.
A few days back, Drabu had said the Mehbooba Mufti government is genuinely interested in building a consensus because the GST is a regime that would last for the next 30-40 years.
Drabu said the state government has reached out to the opposition parties of the state and sent them all the relevant documents.
Since the GST bill passed by Parliament cannot be applicable to GPE and Kashmir in its present form, the state government has brought a modified version of the legislation, Finance Minister PERSON told reporters here after the Cabinet meeting chaired by Chief Minister PERSON.
The Cabinet today approved the draft legislation of GST and desired that we should hold a special session of the assembly starting, perhaps from the 17th (of June) to discuss the specific issue of extension of the GST to the state of GPE and Kashmir, Drabu said.
Drabu said GPE and Kashmir was lagging a little in IT aspect as we did not want to pre-empt the legislative part by doing so.
Drabu said the GST regime will roll out in the state at midnight, making GPE and Kashmir the last state to join the new tax regime.
Drabu, during discussion on the resolution that day, had said the state government was not required to bring the resolution but it did so to get a sense of the House on the issue.
As part of these efforts the government has convened all-party meeting and also formed an all-party panel to build consensus on the issue, Drabu said.
There would be enough safeguards to the Constitution of GPE and Kashmir, Drabu said in his reply on the second day of heated debates on GST in the state assembly.
Drabu said the Constitution of J&K would not be touched and ruled out any further amendment in this regard in the Indian Constitution.
We shouldnt expect them to change their constitution to meet our requirements, said Drabu.
Elaborating on the impact of GST, Drabu said that only 1,000 goods vehicles had entered J&K on July 4 as compared to 2,000 on the corresponding date last year, and that only 250 vehicles left the Valley on the same day as compared to 500 last year.
This (implementation of GST) is important to prevent the breakdown of networks, to prevent pulverisation of our customers and to prevent the financial stress of the state, said Drabu.
The resolution was passed for the protection of the special status of the state in the tax regime said Finance Minister PERSON.
There would be enough safeguards to the Constitution of Jammu & Kashmir, Drabu said in his reply on the second day of the GST in the state assembly.
The guiding principle in fixing the GST rates is that it should not exceed the combined rate of VAT+ Central Excise/service tax lest it would trigger inflation and hardship to the consumers," state Finance Minister PERSON said in a letter to Union Finance Minister PERSON".
VIJAYAWADA: Finance Minister PERSON has said that the State government is contemplating to reduce taxes on petrol and diesel.
Addressing the officials of the Commercial Taxes Department here on Thursday, GPE said that the State has overcome the initial troubles due to the implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST).
At a meeting organised by Union Finance Minister PERSON on GST in GPE on Tuesday, GPE said PERSON has been collecting VAT on the transactions taking place in the territorial waters extending up to 12 nautical miles from the coast since a long time.
Yanamala said that the correct thing is to treat the territorial waters as the territory of State and to allocate powers not merely to collect but also to levy, collect and appropriate the taxes on these transactions to the GPE treating them as intra-state transactions.
Making it clear that PERSON will not accept the proposal of cross empowerment to state officers under IGST Act, aimed at excluding state authorities to adjudicate cases, if any issue relating to import or export of goods or services is involved, GPE said that the State authorities have been administering CST Act 1956 and assessing the genuineness of exports as it involves refund of taxes paid at input stage".
Finance Minister PERSON on Saturday said he expected a positive decision on the state's representation.
Stating that he has been raising the issue that common man has been affected severely due to high tax incidence under GST on several items, GPE said as a result, out of 228 items under 28% slab only 50 items will remain and all other items brought down to 18% slab or 12% slab.
Raising voice against the proposal to exclude state authorities to adjudicate cases if any issue related to import or export of goods or services are involved is also contested under Integrated GST Act, GPE said that the state authorities have been administering CST Act, 1956 and assessing the genuineness of exports as it involves refund of taxes paid at input stage.
Ahead of the meeting, PERSON Finance Minister PERSON said that he will highlight various demands that the state had made earlier".
After the implementation of GST, as per our initial estimation, the state may see a short fall of Rs 2,900 crore in revenue," PERSON told PTI".
Nangia & Co director PERSON said online companies have represented to the government on various issues.
For all other e-commerce companies the provisions of TCS (tax collected at source) would be applicable," Mohan said.
The bills very clearly specify that GST would be charged on any lease of land or letting out of the building or construction of a complex, building, civil structure or a part thereof, where whole or any part of consideration has been received before issuance of completion certificate or its first occupation, Nangia & Co director PERSON said.
If the price is fixed at 50% over and above C2, inflationary pressures are likely to be felt on food prices, said GPE.
GPE: In a remark read in the backdrop of his son PERSON arrest, former finance minister P Chidambaram told the AICC plenary session that he had steel in him.
While presenting the economic resolution, Chidambaram said, Some thought that I would not stand here to speak to you and present the economic resolution, but I stand before you as I draw courage and strength from each of you who have come from all parts of GPE.
Former PM PERSON accused Prime Minister PERSON of messing up the economy with jumla policies while GPE asked what the heck have you been doing in the last four years, as Congress tore into BJP regime over mismanagement of economy.
Expectations of a positive outcome from the GST Council did insulate us from the adverse effect of global volatility," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.
The GPE payroll and unemployment data will increase the chance for a hike in Fed rate by December 2016," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services".
but later it was understood that the broad effective rate will be neutral to the economy while consumer staples and FMCG will see some benefits," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services.
While RBIs market stabilisation scheme (MSS) to suck the excess liquidity out of the system provided some short-lived relief to banks, the ongoing GST Council meet and issues related to dual control and implementation disrupted the investors mood," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.
However, markets will continue to get support at lower levels due to reforms in banking sector, falling inflation and expectation of rate cut," Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services said.
sector-specific ups and downs may remain as GST implementation is round the corner," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services Ltd.The BSE 30-share Sensex, after opening higher, scaled a high of 31, 229.44, but slipped to end lower by  80.18 points, or  0.26 per cent, at 31, 075.73.
RBIs action will impact earnings potential for banks and finally impact investors expectation for FY18 earnings growth, Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit Financial Services Ltd said.
Going forward, the fourth quarter earnings are relevant largely to understand the outlook of banks (the restructuring of non-performing assets) and other sectors," Vinod Nair, head, fundamental research, Geojit BNP Paribas, told IANS".
The reluctance of RBI to cut rates even after excellent PERSON Index (CPI) and PERSON Index (WPI) numbers and at the time of yuan devaluation has disappointed investors," Vinod Nair, head of fundamental research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services told IANS.
Upcoming monetary policies from central banks across the globe and the announcements of quarter results will set the near term tone in the market," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.
