All AADHAR-based applications would be accessible through post offices.
In this New Year full of aspirations and hope, I welcome you to the Joint Sitting of the Two Houses of the Parliament with the belief that your deliberations will be productive and useful.
The Unique Identity Authority of India has been roped in to connect with mobile manufacturers to allow GPE-enabled banking transactions.
Nearly 15-16 lakh biometric devices are currently being used for GPE authentication across the country.
Only 'registered devices' that incorporate the new specifications will be allowed to perform GPE authentication after September 30, 2017.
Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI), the nodal body responsible for rolling out the GPE programme in the country, has also come out in favour of incentives for shopkeepers using the biometric mode for digital transactions, in line with commission given by banks to business correspondents, in a bid to promote GPE-based payment system in rural pockets.
We have recently come out with new specifications and asked manufacturers and vendors to go for STQC certification as per the new standards.
They know when they make specially designed biometric fingerprint scanner for Aadhaar and put another lock as per UIDAI's requirement, it will sell in the market.
At UIDAI, we are very strict on the privacy issue.
Aadhar to bring transparency in welfare schemes: GPE, Aug 15, 2012, (IANS): 9:57 ISTThe government wanted to create a system through which money from central welfare schemes could be credited directly into bank accounts of beneficiaries and would utilise the unique identification number Aadhar scheme for this, Prime Minister PERSON said Wednesday.
Now, in a more ambitious version of programmes that have slashed poverty in GPE and GPE, the government has begun to use the UID database, known as GPE, to make direct cash transfers to the poor, in an attempt to cut out frauds who siphon billions of dollars from welfare schemes.
Now, in a more ambitious version of programmes that have slashed poverty in GPE and GPE, the government has begun to use the UID database, known as GPE, to make direct cash transfers to the poor, in an attempt to cut out frauds who siphon billions of dollars from welfare schemes.
He said he has no doubt that, in the time that is available to the government, each one of them will bring the best efforts to complete the unfinished task.
The scheme is aimed at directly transferring cash to beneficiaries under social schemes such as MNREGA and pension.
GPE also said the government was mulling incorporating Aadhar numbers in the future resident identity cards of the National Population Register(NPR), which falls under the home ministry.
GPE: The Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) will move the Supreme Court to explain its position related to the GPE scheme and also make a bid to save the UPA's showpiece initiative which aims at ensuring transparency in accessing public services and payment of subsidies.
Last month the PERSON ruled that GPE can only be issued to those with proven Indian nationality and cannot be mandatory for accessing public services and subsidies.
Swinging into action, the Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) has reached out to its regional offices to, in turn, sensitise enrollment agencies to strictly adhere to the rules of enrollment, even as the erring operator has been blacklisted.
Of course, we have taken action against the operator, that the operator should not have done this, he said.
The new encryption adds another security layer to the hardware at a time when such devices are all set to take the centre stage in biometric-based digital payments.
The idea is to ensure no person is left out in the enrolment.
The Centre recently notified the new Aadhar Act which gives the numbers assigned by it a statutory backing for transfer of subsidies and benefits to people eligible for them.
We have recently come out with new specifications and asked manufacturers and vendors to go for STQC certification as per the new standards.
Now manufacturers too are showing interestThey know when they make specially designed biometric fingerprint scanner for Aadhaar and put another lock as per UIDAIs requirement, it will sell in the market.
We have received certain complaintswe have a zero tolerance policy on overcharging.
The country needs more good people from all fields including the corporate world, he said, adding politics is an instrument of change.
This is indeed a game changer, GPE asserted and said that banks have already floated tenders for 20 lakh micro-ATMs which once become operational will help the government in directly transferring the cash in the beneficiaries accounts.
It will eliminate all duplicate connections and when it eliminates duplicate connections it will also save us some subsidy.
There is considerable ease in using GPE-based authentication apart from several advantages with the entire process being realti me, UIDAI CEO PERSON told TOI.
Also, an individual seeking another GPE number on the same biometric details is sure to be caught by the UIDAI as biometrics are unique to a person.
It will also be possible to key in the GPE number at a point-of-sale device and authenticate using biometrics.
A pilot is underway at fair price shops in PERSON, where shopkeepers are accepting payments from PDS beneficiaries.
At UIDAI, we are very strict on privacy issues.
We have recently come out with new specifications and asked manufacturers and vendors to go for STQC certification as per the new standards.
Our toll-free helpline 1947, which has been revamped to handle more incoming calls, brings aadhaar closer to everyone.
The use of a fake Aadhaar ID will prove more hazardous to criminals as compared to spurious ration or election cards as biometric data can identify an individual with more certainty.
The Planning Commission today said the Nandan Nilekani-led UIDAI project is better than the one being advocated by the Home Ministry for capturing data regarding residents and improving the delivery of the government schemes.
if you want a platform to improve the efficiency of government schemes delivery that money is well worth it, hesaid.
At a joint press conference today,Union Home Minister PERSON,Nilekani and Planning Commission Deputy Chairman PERSON put up a united front,saying the NPR and UID projects will proceed alongside to ensure that all Indian citizens have a unique number by June 2013.
In a bid to promote GPE-based payment system, especially in rural pockets, UIDAI has favoured incentives for shopkeepers using the biometric mode for digital transactions, in line with commission given by banks to Business Correspondents.
We are saying wherever you do not have business corespondents, supposing a merchant is able to facilitate payment directly from the GPE-linked bank account, then there has to be a system in which the merchant should get the incentive, he said.
it is a win-win situation, he added.
The beneficiaries would be able to get cash through banks, ATMs and even mobile banking when the projects take off.
Congress leader PERSON said: What sterilisation was to the Emergency, GPE seeding is becoming to your government.
It is a target-oriented approach, 100 per cent seeding in every programme.
What sterilisation was to the Emergency, GPE seeding is becoming to your government.
He also said 32,000 private companies have been blacklisted in the interest of data protection.
Another amendment sought to restrict the use of GPE numbers only for targeting of government benefits or service and not for any other purpose.
Saying that the strike was a direct affirmation of the PERSON policies of the Modi government, a statement by Congress spokesperson PERSON said the MP State government was trying to suppress the protests by using illegal means.
Reports said farmers put up barricades to prevent supply of vegetables and milk entering cities.
He hit out at Union Minister PERSON Badal, accusing her of failing to protect the interest of Punjab farmers despite being a part of the Centre.
This was the highest in the country, Capt.
The additional tax for crop compensation, crop insurance and integrated watershed management was levied in October 2015 after severe agrarian crisis in several parts of the state.
Water Resources Minister PERSON had submitted the proposal for GPE 15,000 crore.
The MSP was arrived on the basis of an improper formula and, therefore, farmers will not get correct prices for their produce or labour, he added.
Earlier, the president and his wife arrived in a special aircraft of the Indian Air Force (IAF) at the Sanganer airport and was received by the governor and chief minister.
JAIPUR: Rajasthan chief minister PERSON on Thursday said it was first time in the history of the state that a government has waived farm loans of up to GPE.
We have procured crops of GPE 8,900 crore at the minimum support price (MSP) and will disburse GPE 80,000 crore worth interest-free crop loans to the farmer by the end of this year, which will be highest in the country, she said.
Prior to this, GPE inaugurated PERSON at Dharnidhar garden in GPE area of GPE.
Moreover, Rajasthan is now a GPE-free state, she added.
P V M Reddy (YSR Congress) suggested that the government should fix reasonable minimum support price (MSP) for farm products.
We wonder if Modi sees him (Singh) as a poster boy for his proclamation 'sabka saath, sabka vikas', he said.
The state government needs to design farmer-friendly policies, he said.
Who is playing with the lives of farmers when the agriculture minister says that the Centre has received no request for help for farmers?
The farmers are suffering as a result of the central governments failure to waive their debts, which many state governments, including Punjab , have repeatedly sought, he said.
The chief minister also demanded that the farmers be paid the due price for their produce and in toto implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report.
All the legislators and leaders will be meeting in Nagpur on March 28.
PERSON, Maharashtra Congress president, said the state has been conveniently ignoring farmers suicides and other issues related to farmers despite raising them repeatedly.
We have been raising the issue of loan waiver from Day one and now its time to take it to people, as the government only wants to road roll on our demands and ignore the concerns of farmers, PERSON, state president of Congress told HT, after a joint meeting of Opposition leaders.
PERSON, Congress state unit chief, called the BJP-led government worse than the Nizam rule.
waive loans of farmers also, Rahul said in GPE.
At no stage was the government willing to makes any changes to what had been spelled out in the ordinances.
These have been the two main demands of the farmers who are on a 10-day statewide strike.
2.48pm: The food we eat is all due to the efforts of our farmers and their families, not rich businessmen.
Which is why farmers are our priority, says PERSON.
The UPA government forgave Rs 70,000 crore worth of loans.
Farmers will be able to sell their produce directly to factories.
2.34pm: Narendra Modi has betrayed farmers.
The families of the farmers (who were killed in GPE last year) will get justice in 10 days and we will take action against those responsible for the firing, says the Congress president.
It will do nothing for poor farmers, he added.
The Congress government, on the other hand, had waived over Rs 70,000 crore in farm loans across the country, he added.
The Congress, if voted to power in 2019, will provide on both counts, he said.
After the hailstorm and heavy rains, farmers of northern GPE are in distress.
During the meeting, which is the first time that PERSON met PERSON on any issue, they also submitted a memorandum on the subject.
But he did none of this, he said.
4.17pm: The Congress president says that GPE government has not contributed a single rupee towards the farm loan waiver in GPE.
In his first public appearance after a 53-day sabbatical, Congress vice-president PERSON on Saturday vowed to lead a decisive fight against the governments land acquisition law, but his party ran into a controversy amid reports it was offering free liquor to drum up support for a GPE rally.
Our vote bank is the poor people of UP.
There are incentives for farmers who repaid loans in time.
As the newly-formed coalition government has to fulfil many aspirations of the people, we need the Centre's support in our endeavour despite the ruling parties having different political ideologies, said Mr GPE.
Noting that water was becoming a scarce resource that would limit growth in the farm and other sectors, the Chief Minister said the state government had taken initiatives to rejuvenate lakes and charge water bodies.
In the run-up to the elections, his party had promised to effect a complete loan waiver within 24hours of coming to power.
to make PERSON a beacon of hope for farmers all across GPE, he said.
I want to ensure it is done scientifically benefiting maximum number of farmers.
To ensure farmers get credit at lower rate, the chief minister said that the government should raise the subsidy from 2 per cent to 3 per cent on crop loans for cooperatives.
Hallabol politics of NCP would be settled by exposing PERSON (misappropriation) by the Congress-NCP regime, Fadnavis had remarked on the session eve.
MUMBAI: After his controversial remarks on reservations NCP chief PERSON on Tuesday demanded quotas for farmers to tackle the agrarian crisis and halt the sudden spurt in suicides.
Farmers belonging to Schedule Castes, Schedule Tribes will continue to get reservations in accordance with constitutional provisions.
Constitutionally guaranteed reservation will not be disturbed.
(Anshuman Poyrekar/HT photo)The situation is even more desperate than usual.
Crippled with debts, farmers could not repay the crop loans this season owing to crop failure and are apprehensive that they would not get fresh loans in the ensuing kharif season.
This finding came to light after a review meeting of bankers held by the state-sponsored PERSON Pune.
The cotton growers in the region have suffered because of paucity of rain and later the untimely rain.
The cause for concern is not only the high suicide rate but the entire agrarian crisis.
Only 80,000 of four lakh farmers got crop loans this kharif season under the governments restructured crop loan scheme.
Apart from waiving their loans, a long-term plan to deal with this crisis should be made.
The farmers in the region are depressed and distressed as there were no rains in the area since June 18, and the crops that they sowed dried up.
The cause for concern is not just the suicide rate but the entire agrarian situation.
We have taken opinion of scientific community and considered interest of farming community in allowing their use, he said.
Karnataka Chief Minister PERSON, his deputy PERSON and Chief Secretary PERSON (left) during a meeting with the farmers on the issue of loan waiver, in Bangalore on Wednesday.
.
He added that PERSON elevation would have a positive impact on the polls.
The move was aimed at saving groundwater while ensuring that farmers also get an incentive in the form of cash for their personal use, he said.
The GPE demanded PERSON resignation saying that he did not connect with the farmers woes.
The farmers are suffering as a result of the central governments failure to waive their debts, which many state governments, including Punjab , have repeatedly sought, he said.
The chief minister also demanded that the farmers be paid the due price for their produce and in toto implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report.
Praising former Indian Prime Minister PERSON, PERSON said that it was only under Vajpayee's government that foundation of state 's development was laid under the mantra -Insaniyat, Jamhooriyat, PERSON and that needed to be take forward.
Lets resolve that by 2022 we will no longer have to import pulses I have been telling our universities our agricultural universities should take up each variety of pulses how to do research in it, how to do genetic engineering in it, how to increase productivity, how to increase protein content so that farmers get good prices, PERSON said.
We must strive to reach the global level, PERSON said, saying this was necessary to ensure food security for the countrys rising population.
Modi said the country had to import timber but lakhs of hectares of land was wasted because of fences erected by people along their fields.
Making a strong outreach to the crisis-ridden farming community, PERSON said the PERSON channel is aimed at helping drive farm income by supplying key information, such as weather, market and demand.
The first guarantee given by any government should be that it will not let farmers die, PERSON said.
It wont take even 11 days, said Mr. PERSON to loud cheers from the crowd.
Finance Minister PERSON says the additional burden on the countrys fiscal situation is manageable.
Finance Minister PERSON has said his government will analyse and address rural GPE's issues, even going to the extent of saying that spending on rural GPE and agriculture is not populism.
Later in the day, ending his road show in GPE told a gathering that economists have told him that the schemes like PERSON and loan waiver had helped the overall economy of the country and not just the farmers.
Us sey unka bhi fayeda hoga (It is a political advice for PERSON for his own good), Rahul said adding that such a budget would help farmers knows how much government has set aside for flood, drought, or to assist him with grains, vegetables.
Referring to PERSONs loan waiver promise, a lady, PERSON, asked why not give good price so that question of loan waiver doesnt arise at all, PERSON said, If farmers are in distress, waiver is the immediate step that needs to be taken.
PERSON said, If farmers are in distress, waiver is the immediate step that needs to be taken.
PERSON said he would force the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for a loan waiver for the distressed farmers.
(Source: ANI photo) PERSON said he would force the BJP-led NDA government at the Centre for a loan waiver for the distressed farmers.
Claiming that the Modi government had waived GPE  1.10 lakh crore to 15 big corporates, PERSON asked the Centre why cant it waive the farmers loan.
Terming the day as historic, Raje said that her government is the first in GPE which is waiving loans of up to GPE, while two central governments had waived loans of up to GPE 10,000.
MUMBAI: CM PERSON told TOI on Tuesday that two lakh additional farmers would be beneficiaries of the state governments move to take the cutoff date for the farm loan waiver back to 2001.
Fadnavis also said that of the 36,000 cases related to transfer of forest land to tribals, 20,000 had been resolved.
The farmers main demand was rights over forest land, and PERSON told them the issue would be resolved within six months.
MUMBAI: The state has decided to stay recovery of power bills run up by farmers given their current hardships, chief minister PERSON told the assembly on Thursday.
In the past three years, bill recoveries had been stayed on account of the drought and other crises faced by the farm sector, Fadnavis said.
Meanwhile, Fadnavis also said that the state would pay the power bills due from gram panchayats.
On Hasan Mushrifs query, PERSON said the banks were told to close those accounts and not to levy any interest.
Nearly 13 lakh applications were forwarded to the taluka committees for scrutiny, said PERSON.
Clarifying on the assistance to be given to farmers affected from hailstorms and pink bollworm attack, Fadnavis said the survey has been completed and actual disbursement is in process.
I am going to waive off farmers loans, GPE told reporters in Bengaluru after being sworn in as chief minister.
(Source: AP photo)Saving farmers is the priority of his government, Karnataka Chief Minister PERSON said today, as he promised to honour his commitment to waive farm loans within 15 days and insisted there was no going back on it.
Whatever may be the difficulty, our governmentis committed to maintaining fiscal discipline, and also saving you (farmers), GPE told the meeting after listening to farmers for about three hours.
Kumaraswamy also said he would call a meeting of representatives of nationalised banks in 2-3 days and seek information about farm loans extended by them.
(File)Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy on Monday said he is committed to waive farm loans or else he will retire from politics and asked people not to fall prey to the BJPs conspiracy.
For farmers, Prime Minister PERSON 48 months have been much better than the Congresss rule of 48 years, Singh told Reuters, referring to the main opposition party that dominated Indian politics for most of the years since independence from British colonial rule in 1947.
Partys general secretary PERSON asked: UPA had waived loans of farmers worth Rs 72,000 crore.
Stoutly opposing the bill, Rahul said its passage will not happen so easily.
Terming the government as anti-farmer and anti-poor, Rahul said it does not want to acquire land in GPE or in the deserts of GPE but those near big cities like GPE, Gurgaon and Pune to make money as their prices have been rising.
PERSON also told the government that if it helped the farmers by extending compensation, it will benefit it politically and not to us.
Congress vice-president PERSON, who has been holding khat sabhas (cot meetings) with the farmers in the state, said on Wednesday that his party will launch an agitation to force the Centre to waive loans of the farmers.
We may not be in power at the Centre or in the state, but we will launch an agitation to force the government to concede to our demand of waiving farmers loans, Rahul said, while addressing farmers in Kushinagar and PERSON districts.
waive loans of farmers also, Rahul said in GPE.
NCPs PERSON asked the Centre to chip in with more help and waive short-term loans, particularly crop loan and the interest on loans for purchase of agriculture equipment.
Tiwari said the state government has been shaken by the constantly rising of suicides by distressed farmers.
Tiwari, however, said,At least in Beed where I visited today, I did not find anything amiss in the way the fodder scheme or cattle camps are being run.
PERSON, leader of farmers advocacy group PERSON, said, Hostile counselling alone will not work and distressed families should be assured of health, educational benefits, food security, special long-term loans for their daughters wedding.
PERSON, activist who heads the commission for farmers in distressed districts, said, The biggest relief to farmers during the drought is assured food and health care.
Finance Minister PERSON this month said the government will spend a record amount on rural areas and farming to help double farmers income by 2022.
The Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood (SANKALP) was a project with an estimate of $675 million, PERSON said in PERSON.
The government should give GPE 5 lakh cash to the family of a farmer who commits suicide, a job offer, besides waving the debts, said PERSON, state secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab.
Laying stress on setting up more ultra-modern centers of excellence for undertaking research and design (R&D) to promote agriculture diversification in the state, Punjab chief minister PERSON on Tuesday said that these were the 'temples of second green revolution' which were required for bailing out the farmers from the current agrarian crisis.
Badal said that the massive hike in the cost of agricultural inputs coupled with the non-remunerative MSP has broken the backbone of the farmers due to which there was dire need for adopting crop diversification in state.
Badal said that the state government was leaving no stone unturned to ensure that more and more such centres were opened in the state for the larger interest of the farmers adding that special thrust was being laid on promoting the cultivation of vegetables and citrus fruits through them.
His hopes for financial bailout from the BJP-led government at the Centre yet to be fulfilled, Punjab chief minister PERSON told Modi it was high time that farmers too got their due.
Now it is time to do a bit for the farmer who ensure food security of the country, Badal, who was speaking in GPE, said referring to the slogan 'PERSON, PERSON given by late Prime Minister PERSON, which Modi too had echoed as a poll promise.
Still hoping for a fiscal bailout from the Prime Minister, Badal said the PM understands Punjab's problems and he does not need to be reminded about them.
In a statement issued here, Akali MPs PERSON and Balwinder Singh Bhunder from PERSON and Prem Singh Chandumajra from PERSON said GPE, GPE and few other factions of the Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) were trying to sow seeds of discontent in the peasantry.
However, state government has plans to conduct the survey, said PERSON, head of the economics department at Punjabi University.
The government should give `5 lakh cash to the family of a farmer who commits suicide, a job offer, besides waving the debts, said PERSON, state secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union, Punjab.
On a trip to villages in his Lambi assembly constituency last week, Badal, while speaking on the GPE govts debt waiver scheme during an interaction with the media, said he was willing to talk to top brass of the government for the sake of debt-ridden farmers.
Deputy chief minister PERSON Badal on Tuesday said Prime Minister PERSON has assured the chief minister PERSON and himself on fiscal assistance to the state.
Answering a query regarding financial package, Badal said the state had demanded outstanding debt waiver and refund of Rs 2,694 crore paid as interest on special term loan amounting to Rs 5,800 crore by the state for fighting militancy.
PERSON said from November onwards AAP cadres would begin a mass contact programme by visiting each and every household in the state, explaining the policies and programmes of the party.
Terming the Union Railway budget people-friendly and development-oriented, the Punjab chief minister PERSON on Monday said that the decision to involve states to make the Railways the backbone of national connectivity would usher in a new era of cooperative federalism in the country.
Likewise, Badal said that the announcement on embarking PERSON, a special travel scheme to help farmers to learn about new farming and marketing techniques, would also go a long way in bailing out the farmers from current agrarian crisis.
Prasad said in order to help children suffering from autism, an e-learning tool has also been developed by the National Institute of Mentally Handicapped and all the scholarships will be under one banner.
By giving them all the pro-poor subsidies and benefits we have saved Rs 36,000 crore in the last one year because of application of digital technologies, Ravi Shankar Prasad said.
PERSON-GPE trinity, commonly known as JAM, helped the Government save leakages worth Rs 36,000 crore in subsidies and benefits provided to the poor, during the last one year, Union Minister PERSON Prasad today said.
By giving them all the pro-poor subsidies and benefits we have saved Rs 36,000 crore in the last one year because of application of digital technologies, Prasad said addressing the inauguration of India International Trade Fair in the national capital.
UIDAI Deputy Director PERSON (Bangalore regional office) PERSON told Deccan Herald that the software - which is more accurate and contains more security features - would be simultaneously released in all 18 states where UIDAI is operating.
PERSON said the second phase of GPE enrolments would be more stringent and foolproof, both at the enrolment level and data uploading level.
GPE said pilot projects are on in GPE and GPE to keep track of enrolment centres through Global Positioning System.
Progress so farState Enrolled Uploaded GPE card generatedKarnataka 1,59,37,059 1,55,36,169 1,33,19,240Tamil Nadu 30,37,149 29,53,854 27,27,574Puducherry 9,11,244 8,82,803 7,74,646Kerala 71,15,818 65,74,719 55,48,154Total 2,70,01,270 2,59,47,545 2,23,69,614Source: UIDAIEnrol from anywhereWhen questioned about citizens who have missed out on enrolling in the first phase and whether there would be enrolment centres in the districts which have been already covered, PERSON said anybody could enrol from any part of the State or country, provided they have the necessary documents.
PERSON said even those residents whose enrolments have been rejected can approach the enrolment centres with necessary documents and go for fresh enrolments.
PERSON, Deputy Director of the UIDAI Regional Office, Bangalore, said UIDAI, in a bid to reduce processing time, had enhanced the capacity of the Central Identification Repository to process 10 lakh packets per day from the current five lakh.
PERSON, Deputy Director, Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) said unique identification (UID) card was a legal database collection system and there was no chance of the data being misused.
Jaitley said the bill had a proviso that said only officers of joint secretary-level and above could order sharing of biometric information.
Worryingly, as our young population ages, it is also going to be pension-less, Jaitley said.
On Wednesday, finance minister PERSON said that an GPE card could become the sole identifier for a person in future.
A stage may come that the unique identity will become the only card, Jaitley said, replying to the debate on finance bill.
UIDAI will eventually increase its biometric authentication capacity to 40 crore, UIDAI Chief Executive Officer PERSON told reporters here.
This actually is a good practice whenever they submit photocopies of documents, UIDAI Chief Executive Officer PERSON said in a statement.
Mr. PERSON said a lot of planning has gone into JAM over the last six years and he was happy to see all the three things (PERSON bank accounts, PERSON numbers and mobile phone numbers) integrated with great efficiency in GPE district.
UIDAI has not authorised the owners of these mobile applications or websites to extend any GPE-related services on its behalf, Mr PERSON said in the statement.
GPE is robust, safe, secure and totally accountable, Prasad told reporters here.
GPE: The Central government is planning to make all ration shops under the public distribution system in the country GPE-enabled by June 30 this year, IT minister PERSON Prasad today said.
We will make all  5.58 lakh ration shops PERSON by June 30.
In GPE, even payment in ration shops is being made using thumb impression which is linked to GPE, Prasad said.
It will take care of consumer interest and cyber security, Prasad said.
Observing that at present, over 113 crore residents in GPE have GPE, Prasad said that GPE is safe, let me say proudly that the data is secure.
This is the kind of safeguards we have given that the biometrics of an ordinary person even in case of national security cannot be opened unless certified by this level of higher authorities, Prasad said.
Prasad said the government saved about Rs 50,000 crore LPG subsidy due to the linking of GPE card with PERSON accounts.
Now there is a robust legisation that has laid down the entire format of how the biometric data will be collected, processed, stored and under what terms and conditions will it be used, Prasad said.
It's a new feature in the second phase of enrollment which will begin shortly, PERSON told PERSON.
They can log on to the UIDAI website, enter their enrolment number and take a printout of the e-GPE card which can be used for various schemes till the actual GPE number arrives , said UIDAI deputy director-general PERSON.
UIDAI deputy director general PERSON said the data centre in Bangalore is unique and it would store biometric and demographic data of people enrolled under Aadhaar throughout the country.
UIDAI deputy director general PERSON told PERSON the shell of the building has been handed over to PERSON for developing the data centre.
UIDAI regional deputy director PERSON told Times Of India the ministry of home affairs has given its clearance, and in the first phase, 65 guards will be deployed at the Centre.
PERSON, deputy director-general of UID Authority of India, Bangalore, told TOI on Tuesday: The authority has completed all requirements as outlined by the Centre on the technical front.
PERSON said on the authority's part, new technical parameters had been introduced .
After intervention by the moderator, PERSON said: I am 200% confident that GPE is a legal body.
Dharwad: GPE is not only a foundation of unique identification of residents of GPE, but also the sheet anchor for all the services and facilities, a resident of GPE is entitled to get from the government said deputy director general 'GPE' UIDAI regional office (Bangalore) PERSON.
UIDAI regional deputy director PERSON said the Centre has asked regional offices to furnish a database on GPE-linked beneficiaries (existing and proposed) under various public services like subsidized LPG, pension schemes, student scholarship and PDS.
PERSON set to achieve 100% Aadhar card registrationPanaji, July 13, 2013, (PTI) : 18:46 ISTPERSON is all set to become the first state to cover all people under the Aadhar card registry, chief minister PERSON said here today.
Addressing the Sebi board, PERSON also said the passage of new PERSON law would help in expanding investor base in securities market via KYC (Know Your Client) simplification by greater use of technology.
therefore we have decided that in addition to the GPE platform all those who have a bank account will also get the LPG subsidy in their accounts directly, Finance Minister PERSON told reporters.
Jaitley said the scheme would be implemented in a mission mode.
Addressing the function, UPA chairperson PERSON said the GPE scheme not only gives identity to the common man but is also a tool to claim benefits.
Hoping that Goods and Services Tax (GST) will be introduced from July 1, PERSON said a consensus has been arrived at between the Centre and states on most of the contentious issues in the GST Council meeting.
Large amounts to be saved by routing subsidy through Aadhar:GPE, Mar 11, 2016 (PTI) 18:39 ISTThousands of crore rupees will be saved by routing government subsidy through the GPE system, Finance Minister PERSON said today, as PERSON passed a PERSON to give statutory backing to the unique identity number scheme.
Moving the bill for consideration and passage earlier, Jaitley said targeted subsidy through Aadhar cards of LPG consumers had resulted in savings of over Rs 15000 crore at the Centre.
Additionally, as I will elaborate later, we will undertake significant reform including enactment of a law to ensure all government benefits are conferred to people who deserve it by giving a statutory backing to the Aadhar platform, Finance Minister PERSON said while announcing Union Budget 2016-17.
In a review meeting, Finance Minister PERSON told the officers that GPE card numbers may also be seeded with bank accounts as the same will help in directly transferring the subsidies to the bank accounts of the desired sections of the society under Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme.
The need for this (Aadhar) and the utility for this has been universally recognised across GPE, says PERSON, Union Finance Minister.
Terming it as a transformative piece of legislation, Mr. PERSON said a social security platform will be developed using Aadhaar to accurately target beneficiaries.
GPE platform is now ready to support payments under various schemes directly to the beneficiaries accounts in select areas, Mukherjee said.
Addressing the function,UPA Chairperson PERSON said the Aadhar scheme gives identity to the common man and is a tool to claim benefits.
Elaborating on implementation issues, Ramesh said the government claims to have saved Rs 49,000 crore LPG subsidies by linking with GPE but a CAG report has debunked this in a recent report.
After the passage of GST bill with voice vote, Drabu said new tax regime will roll out in the state at midnight, making J&K the last state to join the GST.
Drabu said all necessary safeguards to GPE of the J&K State Constitution and those enshrined in Article-370 of the Indian Constitution have been incorporated in the Presidential order regarding which apprehensions were expressed by some legislators during the discussion on the GST legislation.
Drabu said the existing tax incentives under the industrial policy will be continued and the cross-LoC trade can be maintained in the current form".
Regarding GST, the finance minister said it would be an integrated tax regime which would replace 16 taxes currently being levied by the Centre and the state government.
In case the GST is not extended to the state, the businesses will be crippled as no trader from GPE and Kashmir will be able to do business with their counterparts from other parts of the country," Drabu said, adding the consumer in J-K will be the worst hit due to double taxation.
Aam Aadmi Party Trade Wing convener PERSON said the workshop was very important as it would facilitate a smooth transition to GST.
For small traders who are still not comfortable with online processes, this training is critical to enable effective transition, Goyal added.
The programmes have built confidence among the traders to welcome the GST regime, association founder and president PERSON said.
B T Manohar, Chairman of State Tax Committee team GST, Federation of Karnataka Chambers of Commerce and Industry (PERSON), Bengaluru, said that Karnataka was a role model for all other states in the country.
He said GST had been implemented in GPE already.
He said awareness on GST was the need of the hour.
B.T. Manohar, chairman, State Taxes Committee, PERSON, says: GST will certainly bring down prices and check inflation.
To provide legal back up, PERSON unanimously passed the GST Bill 2017.
In the meeting, the exporters were assured that on 90% of the amount (of refund), within seven days, the refund will be made and if there is an undue delay, interest will be paid on the amount due, PERSON said.
Captain PERSON said that the revenue growth of the state was increasing and was better than that of the neighbouring states.
This would further increase after implementation of the GST Bill, he said adding that the World Bank and other financial institutions had also hailed the GST Bill.
By then, this bill would take the form of a law, he added.
Replying to Congress MLA from Palwal Karan PERSON, the finance minister assured the House that GST will benefit all.
Abhimanyu, himself an Army veteran, said that automobiles supplied through CSD were expected to see a reduction of  2.7% or even higher".
There will be a reduction of levies on these items to the extent of  2.7%," Abhimanyu said in a note prepared by his department on the issue.
Before leaving for GPE, Abhimanyu said the Indian delegation was visiting the country as GST had been implemented in a better way there and in GPE.
Punjab finance minister PERSON said businesses and traders were getting ready for the rollout.
I am sure over the next few weeks we will be able to complete the requirements for a rollout.        As with any initiative there may be hiccups and we should be prepared to deal with them, said PERSON finance minister PERSON.
I am sure over the next few weeks we will be able to complete the requirements for a rollout.        As with any initiative there may be hiccups and we should be prepared to deal with them, said PERSON finance minister PERSON.
Any person aggrieved by any profiteering can send his complaint to the committee," Abhimanyu said.
CHANDIGARH: Haryana finance minister PERSON said decisions taken in the recent meeting of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council would immensely benefit the state as the council had decided to give compensation to the states for five years.
He said it was also decided in the meeting of the council in GPE recently that a separate corpus fund be created to compensate states, so as to ensure regular flow of compensation to all states for the next five years.
CHANDIGARH: On day of GST launch , PERSON finance minister PERSON said that of 2,47,999 dealers in the state, 1,90,234 applicants have successfully registered with the GST system in different districts of the state.
He said the Haryana Goods and Services Tax Act, 2017 had been passed by the Haryana Vidhan Sabha on May 4.
The provision of providing bank account details at the time of applying for registration under the DVAT and CST Act has been made optional, which will encourage more traders to register, said PERSON, convenor, AAP Trade Wing.
Mr. PERSON, in the letter, said there was a reduction in effective rates of tax on several goods under the GST.
Finance Minister PERSON on Saturday said the Central and State governments gave up their exclusive rights under the federal structure to impose taxes on various commodities, to pave the way for the Goods and Services Tax (GST), a structure that helped several countries achieve higher growth rates.
Introducing the AP State Goods and Services PERSON, Finance Minister PERSON said the proposed legislation, introduced on the instructions of the GST Council which circulated a draft of the State GST, would confer powers on the State government to levy goods and services tax on the supply of goods and services or both which take place within the State.
PERSON, which clocked impressive growth in 2017-18, will continue its momentum in 2018-19 and become a role model for the rest of the country, said Finance Minister PERSON here on Tuesday.
Addressing media persons here on Thursday to share his first impressions about the Union Budget, Mr. PERSON said that the Centre had announced Rs. 2,000 crore would be allocated for minimum support price (MSP) operations for all crops but this amount should be increased if it is to truly benefit the farmers.
Mr. PERSON, however, said GPE became a role model through its progressive schemes like PERSON drinking water supply scheme and Mission Kakatiya which were lauded by the NITI PERSON and recommended allocation of GPE. 19,000 crore and GPE. 5,000 crore respectively.
Administrative control with a single authority (either Centre or state) would ensure ease of compliances and assessment for the assessees, PERSON, leader, indirect tax, BMR & Associates GPE, said.
Many will question how deep an impact the GST will have on the economy in the near- and long-term, firms seem convinced that prospects will brighten as the new tax regime becomes clearer, said PERSON.
to take this as an opportunity for renewing the direction, for capitalising on the benefits that we can get from a far more transparent, far more open and let me say far less messy cash-based transactions," Teaotia said".
The State is also doing well in the service sector, said Ms. PERSON.
The labour market was strengthened over the month as the pace of job creation quickened to the fastest since mid-2011, led by the transport and storage and consumer services sub- sectors," GPE said.
September data painted an encouraging picture as the sector continued to recover from the disruptions caused by the introduction of GST in July," said PERSON, Economist at IHS Markit, and author of the report.
GPE further said: "Business confidence strengthened among manufacturers as they reportedly anticipate long-term benefits from recent government policies.
In a fax message to Mr. PERSON on Tuesday, Dr. PERSON said the tax rates of the majority of the commodities had come down on implementing GST, but traders tend to conceal it and were levying exorbitant prices and raking huge profit.
The State will receive an additional income of GPE. 3,000 crore once the GST regime is implemented, Finance Minister PERSON has said.
Participating in the question hour in the Assembly on Thursday, Dr. PERSON said the State would receive revenue from malls, supermarkets, and online traders.
He assured that the process would be pursued with complete transparency.
, as being demanded by National Democratic Alliance (NDA) partner chief minister PERSON, especially in the light of the issues related to the state's development that he (Nitish) raisedThe 14th Finance Commission increased the share of states in central taxes.
He added that hed meet chairmen and senior officials of nationalised banks about farm loans in their banks to seek their feedback on loan waiver and frame guidelines accordingly.
Not only farmers loans will be waived, but also educative programmes will be introduced, he said.
In order to make the economy of any country strong, one needs to have three pillars of equal strength: one-third each for agriculture, manufacturing and service sectors, he said.
Parkash Singh Badal said that the current provisions of the Act were archaic and needed immediate amendments in the larger interests of the farmers.
(File photo)To save farmers from distress selling of crops in open market, Punjab Chief Minister PERSON on Monday approved setting up of a price stabilisation fund in the state.
Interacting with a delegation of the Bhartiya Kissan Union, which called on him on Monday, PERSON said that this step would result in a self-sustaining mechanism to ensure better remunerative prices to the peasantry for their produce.
During the deliberations, the Chief Minister informed the delegation, led by the Chairman of Punjab Mandi Board Ajmer PERSON, that the state government has already released funds worth Rs 80 crore to ensure free crop loan of farmers upto Rs 50000.
He also asked the Chairman to immediately release the tubewell connections under priority category of 2.5 and five acres.
Likewise, Badal also asked him to issue tubewell connections for farmers having land near the border fence on the top priority.
Badal also asked the Additional Chief Secretaries Development and Revenue to seek legal opinion from GPE Remembrancer (LR) for making suitable amendments in the Land Tenure Act 1953 for facilitating the farmers to get better prices of their produce.
Badal also raised the issue of sharing of river waters and asked the Centre to settle the long pending dispute as per the national and internationally accepted Riparian Principle without any further delay.
Likewise,there has been an impressive hike in the excise revenue from GPE crore during the previous Congress government to GPE 2,500 crore in 2010-11 which is likely to touch the target of GPE 3,200 crore during the year 2011-12.
At the same time, we will not interfere or use central agencies to serve political ends.
But I can claim that we have been able to run the government successfully where all major policy decisions have been undertaken by a unanimous vote, he said.
I did what I felt right at that time, Fadnavis said.
The government has set aside GPE crore towards this aid, he said.
We are sure the suicide rate will soon come down, he said.
(Source: File)Maharashtra Chief Minister PERSON on Saturday said his government has completed two years in office without a scam taint and expressed confidence that senior leader PERSON would return to the ministry soon.
Drought management was a challenge that my government faced with.
But, I have replied to all the charges with proof, he said while replying to a query.
I take quarterly reviews and the feedback is good.
He said he was working to restore the states past glory in industrial development.
This has been meticulously planned and would be projected during the mega event from February 13 to 18, it is learnt.
However, a complete loan waiver in Maharashtra would require Rs 24,000 crore, sources indicated.
However, considering the financial burden on farmers, the government wants to ease these norms for one season.
They are urging prosperous farmers to undertake hydroponic experiments and help bridge the gap in supply of fodder in their respective villages.
Chief Minister PERSON on Friday said an integrated scheme to ensure economic sustenance for small and marginal farmers was being worked out to put an end to farmer suicides in Maharashtra.
The alternative source of livelihood such as dairy, fisheries or poultry farming is being worked region wise to ensure farmers can survive even if their crops fail.
Notwithstanding the causes that lead to such incidents, my government is determined to make farmers self-reliant through drastic policy changes in coming years.
We have been told to launch a special drive to get those farmers who are in need to avail of the scheme.
Chief Minister PERSON has warned district cooperative banks and other financial institutions of stern action if they turn down eligible loan requests of farmers ahead of the kharif season.
There are well laid out guidelines under which they will have to work and anybody found violating rules would invite action, Fadnavis said.
The state government has issued a clear target to the financial institutions to ensure allocation of agriculture loans and credit disbursement is also enhanced to arrest the dependence of over 70 per cent of the farming community on private money lenders.
Compared to 2015, the suicides this year in Beed are certainly down by more than 30 per cent, he said.
IN A bid to tackle drought effectively, the Maharashtra government has planned to link its water conservation projects with environmental preservation.
This has gone a long way in tackling the agrarian crisis.
Water and power are two things we are committed to provide to farmers to make them self-reliant.
Maharashtra Chief Minister PERSON Chief Minister PERSON budget 2016-17 made special provisions in core sectors of irrigation and power to boost industrialisation in backward regions of PERSON and GPE.
These are being worked out to make agriculture a sustainable sector, he said.
The distribution of food grains in the villages will ensure not a single farmer goes to sleep hungry, he added.
This would be in addition to the Rs 25,000 crore promised by the state government to mobilise resources through agriculture tax to invest in the farm sector.
Works under the Jalyukt Shivar-aimed at a drought proof Maharashtra would have to be completed in these districts before June 15.
Maharashtra BJP chief PERSON on Sunday said the state would have a separate budget for agriculture to tackle the socio-economic problems of farmers, if the BJP-led alliance was voted to power.
Maharashtra CM DevenDra Fadnavis Maharashtra CM DevenDra FadnavisCHIEF MINISTER PERSON on Saturday stressed that fresh crop loans for the ensuing PERSON season should be handed over to farmers on a mission mode to ensure that most small and marginal farmers find a place in the institutional credit mechanism.
Now, with the government extending its loan waiver scheme to all debt-ridden farmers who had taken loans between 2001 and 2016, around 60 to 67 lakh farmers are set to benefit.
The ministers have been told to tour all talukas and find out whether the steps taken and government schemes being implemented were reaching the farmers and whether the villagers had any grievances to make, he said.
The decision is to facilitate farmers who have not been able to file online applications for various reasons.
Whatever we did was for the weak and the poor.
I want to assure everybody that no group or person will have to hit the streets in protest because our government will work for the benefit of all, Kumaraswamy said.
Modi, then the BJPs PM face, had held discussions at GPE with farmers at chai pe charcha, an interactive event that was part of the BJPs campaign.
Reiterating state Congress commitment to waive off farmers debts if it comes to power in GPE, PERSON assured the farmers that their plight would end after the assembly elections.
He, however, promised to implement Swaminathan Commission once he comes in power besides promising that he will reduce power tariff from existing GPE per unit to GPE 4 per unit.
They expressed solidarity with protesting farmers of the state and also unfolded a roadmap for farmers debt waiver plan if Congress comes to power.
We are asking the Prime Minister PERSON to spare some money from this huge amount for providing debt relief to the farmers, he said, while asserting that it is the duty of everyone including the government of GPE to save the farmers from committing suicide.
So far, an amount of GPE. 999.67 crore had been disbursed as relief to about 2.02 lakh farmers, he added.
The chief minister also demanded that the farmers be paid the due price for their produce and in toto implementation of the Swaminathan Commission report.
The UPA government had waived off Rs 70,000 crore loan of farmers.
You just count for 10 days our government will come up with policy to waive farmer debt, said PERSON.
Why would we want to hike taxes and earn brickbats when GST is likely to be implemented across the country soon ?
Our sales tax revenue target has been met and we have estimated an increase for next year.
At the most with these rains, drinking water problem will no longer be acute.
The estimated revenue growth for the current fiscal is 9.64% and the rate of growth in spending on the salary should not exceed it for the long term fiscal stability of the state, the government resolution issued on Wednesday stated.
The golden jubilee is an occasion to celebrate the past, but it should also become an occasion to look ahead into the future and help the state scale new heights, the PM said.
While PERSON is agonising about his garlic in MP, a few thousand miles away in GPE, the Union agriculture ministry is busy preparing flashy booklets and nifty presentations to showcase what it will call achievements and how these would result in the realisation of one of the Prime Minister's many dreams - doubling farmers' incomes by 2022.
CHANDIGARH: Addressing a protest rally at Chandigarh on Tuesday, former Punjab chief minister PERSON advised farmers not to pay their debt stating that his successor Captain PERSON had given them sworn affidavits stating he would pay their debts.
After the CLP meeting, Home Minister PERSON told reporters that the legislators wanted the government to allot more houses for the poor.
On May 30, Kumaraswamy said he needed 15 days to come out with a plan to implement a loan waiver.
He said the BJP believes in vesting all powers in one man while the Congress wanted power to trickle down to people.
Latur district in GPE, which is amongst the worst-hit this drought, has ensured that the government sends across at least 70 lakh litres of water through trains.
Those opposing the PERSON want three conditions incorporated in it no forcible acquisition of land from farmers, mandatory social impact assessment and clarity on industrial corridor.
He said the loan waiver for distressed farmers should be on the scale of the UPAs bailout package of 2008, at todays prices.
These interest-free loans were extended by banks to sugar mills as additional working capital specifically for clearance of cane price arrears of previous seasons and timely settlement of cane price to farmers for that years sugar season.
Speaking on the occasion, PERSON said the Congress will fight for the farmers and push ahead with its demand to waive their crop loan.
Barring a few districts, rains have been good across the state.
A day after the State government agreed to meet demands of farmers, thousands of whom marched to the city from PERSON, Chief Minister PERSON on Tuesday listed decisions agreed upon in the meeting between the PERSON organisers and the State.
The committee that will be set up to monitor its implementation will have farmer representatives and Ministers.
Mr PERSON said while he was not opposed to the idea of a complete loan waiver, it was a decision that had to be taken at an appropriate time.
We are committed to giving more, he assured the House.
The HCL approved assistance from the National Disaster Relief Fund (NDRF) for Madhya Pradesh to the tune of Rs 2,033 crore and Rs 3,050 crore relief for Maharashtra.
We need dal chawal, we need hospitals, she says.
They have worked to remove human suffering, he says.
We wonder if Modi sees him (Singh) as a poster boy for his proclamation 'sabka saath, sabka vikas', he said.
Prime Minister PERSON on Thursday said his government was open to suggestions from political parties on ways to stop the spate of farmer suicides in the country.
Bring Yeddyurappa to power, says PERSON PM iterates that he is fighting corruption and will not spare those who have looted the poor.
We are doing everything possible to improve connectivity, says PM.
But in the last three-four years, GPE has strengthened its economy and contributed to stabilising world economy too, PERSON says.
7.27pm: Modi says PERSON will be expanded to more places and that resources will be allocated for the re-development of the citys lakes.
Farmers in Karnataka have hugely benefited from the scheme, says PM.
We are committed to welfare of farmers.
We are promoting tourism in GPE.
We are connecting distant places through airways, says PM Modi.
It is our government that worked on electrification of villages that had no power for 70 long years, claims the prime minister.
GPE said that the Centre had filed a reply in the Supreme Court in compliance with the top courts earlier order on the issue.
Citing an example, GPE said petrol pumps deposited mostly Rs 500 and GPE notes in banks when the exemptions were allowed.
Attorney General PERSON said that old currency notes worth GPE 8000 crore collected by DCCBs across the country have been allowed to be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
Attorney General PERSON said that old currency notes worth GPE 8000 crore collected by DCCBs across the country have been allowed to be deposited in the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
We have allowed them to deposit this amount to the PERSON subject to KYC norms and we will issue a notification in this regard within two days, GPE said.
In response, Attorney General PERSON said that there is no shortage of funds as GPE 100 notes are in circulation and the ATMs needed to be re-calibrated to issue new currency notes of GPE 500 and GPE 2,000.
Attorney General PERSON said that the Centre had filed a reply in the Supreme Court in compliance with the top courts earlier order on the issue.
GPE told the court that black money destabilises economy and the country.
Lavasa said people need money for transaction so for replacement that currency is being introduced.
Speaker PERSON said since the bill is of urgent public importance, it has to be passed immediately.
Speaker PERSON said since the bill is of urgent public importance, it has to be passed immediately.
Speaker PERSON said since the bill is of urgent public importance, it has to be passed immediately.
Speaker PERSON said since the bill is of urgent public importance, it has to be passed immediately.
Union Finance minister PERSON in his budget speech on Wednesday said that nearly 1,50,000 gram panchayats will get high-speed internet under the BharatNet project by the end of the March 2018.
Jaitley also said that nearly 1,55,000 kms of optical fibre has been laid under BharatNet till date and it currently covers 75,700 gram panchayats.
Jaitley also said that the government also plans to make use of the internet to teach people in these panchayats and help them with medical issues via telemedicine under the DigiGaon programme.
Kuch the pehle ke tareeke, to kuch hai aaj ke rang dhang (Its a new world, new order, new zeal, Jaitley said.
Those involved in big scams now have to stand in queues to exchange GPE, PERSON had said in his address.
The passage of this bill will help in increasing the size of the country's economy, Meghwal said, adding that investor protection and corporate governance were the two main objectives of the measure.
It would also help in improving the country's position in the 'ease of doing business', GPE told PTI after the House passed the bill.
Rejecting apprehensions that the trust in the capital market has been broken, Meghwal said had that been the case, how was the Sensex crossing the 32,000 mark.
The ministry has already issued notices to many firms for not complying with CSR provisions under the Companies Act and in some instances they have not responded, Meghwal said.
Assuring relief to the MSME sector, Meghwal said the next budget will look into their concerns.
Spelling out advantages of demonetisation, Meghwal said that it will help lower interest rate.
With regard to the Goods and Services Tax (GST), Meghwal said the government intends to implement it from April 1.
In a separate reply, when asked how much old Rs 500 and GPE notes (SBNs) were deposited/exchanged upon being de-legalised, Meghwal said specified bank notes (SBNs) worth Rs  12.44 lakh crore were returned to currency chests of RBI by December 10, 2016.
Economic affairs secretary PERSON said that one of the main reasons for the long queues outside banks was that people were lining up several times to exchange notes, frustrating the efforts of others who haven't been able to change their notes even once since the shock announcement.
Das said it had been decided to constitute technology teams to hasten the pace of recalibrating the ATMs for the new high-denomination notes.
This will improve the functioning of toll plazas, digital payments, Das said.
Das said all government offices have been asked to use only digital routes for paying to stakeholders, contractors and employees.
In the coming few months, GPE notes will be brought in with a new design, economic affairs secretary PERSON said.
Jaitley said the fiscal deficit has been proposed at  3.2 per cent of the GDP for 2017-18 and will be further brought down to 3 per cent in the subsequent year.
Moreover, PERSON said the quality of fiscal deficit too has improved during NDA regime as it is not on account of compressing expendititure but due to additional resource mobilisation.
As regards to the inflation, PERSON said it is at  3.6 per cent as against the target of 4 per cent (+/- 2 per cent) given to the RBI and the current account deficit has been brought down to  0.3 per cent from a high of  4.5 per cent during UPA regime.
Jaitley said the demonetisation, coupled with the implementation of GST, will make GPE a single market instead of 30 different markets in the states, facilitaing free flow goods and services throughout the country.
Answering questions as to why the RBI has not yet come out with the amount of scrapped notes deposited with the banks, PERSON said they were computing and will not hurriedly give the numbers as it concerns their reputation.
Jaitley further said the collection figures with regard to income tax, excise tax and realisation of VAT by states, with the exception of two states, have gone up post demonetisation.
Responding to criticism of government on demonetisation by Trinmool Congress MP PERSON, PERSON said cash is root cause of many problems including the chit fund fraud which was witnessed in GPE.
Jaitley said the practice of presenting separate GPE budget was started by the Britishers in 1924 as its size was more than the General Budget and rail was the major mode of transport.
(File Photo)Finance Minister PERSON today said the currency is in surplus and the ministry is monitoring status of ATMs on a daily basis to sort out operational issues.
In a statement to the media, PERSON said, Political parties have not been granted any exemption or privilege, post demonetisation and introduction of Taxation Amendment Act, 2016.
Jaitley categorically said there is no question of sparing anyone, and the political class is no exception.
Political parties enjoy no immunity whatsoever, said PERSON, adding that If there is any discrepancy in the books or records of political parties, they are as liable to be questioned by the Income Tax authorities as is anyone else.
If there is no debate, nobody from the opposition is going to be allowed to speak, Jaitley said.
PTI PhotoAddressing party MPs at the BJPs Parliamentary party meeting, Finance Minister PERSON said that the Prime Minister has created a new normal of white transactions with the demonetisation move and that this would lead to a jump in public spending in welfare activities.
Terming the decision historic, Jaitley said : what was normal from last 70 years that this much in cash and this much in cheque but now the Prime Minister has created a new normalToday every honest citizen feels that a premium has been given for his honesty.
In the long term, this landmark step will increase the size of official economy and reduce the shadow economy, PERSON said.
Watch What Else Is making NewsAt a time when the government is fighting the cash crunch following the demonetisation move, PERSON said that the government would focus on rural areas and more measures would be announced to bring relief to farmers.
Union Finance Minister PERSON said that he is ready to explain the governments stand, but the opposition is preventing that because it wants to stall Parliament rather than engage in discussion.
Today, I challenge them to spell out a single step that they had taken during 10-year of their rule against black money, Finance Minister PERSON said while replying to the debate.
When CPMs GPE PERSON intervened to say that many tribunals were overburdened with work as well, PERSON said in such cases additional benches could be constituted.
At that point, Jaitley said the government intended to include that provision in the Rules of the legislation.
Jaitley said just because it is possible to hack a network did not mean that technology must not be deployed.
Jaitley said the person who had done that had already been apprehended and blacklisted.
Finance Minister PERSON (File Photo) Finance Minister PERSON (File Photo)THE IMPLEMENTATION of the Goods and Services Tax (GST), coupled with a digitised economy ushered in by demonetisation, will make Indias economy look much cleaner and bigger, said Union Finance Minister PERSON at the Vibrant Gujarat Global Summit Wednesday.
Jaitley said, After the transient impact of this is over.
Talking about the opening up of the GPEn economy, PERSON said, A new GPE had emerged, which is evident from the fact that while the world is moving slowly today and you hear the voices of protectionism in the developed world, the debate over protectionism is hardly heard in GPE.
Slamming Congress and Left parties for focusing only on difficulties seen after demonetisation drive, Jaitley said they were completely ignoring the economic and moral objectives behind the move.
Stating that the previous UPA regime has left behind a legacy of of policy paralysis, indecisiveness and no-doing approach, Jaitley said the Prime Minister had taken a very courageous decision as he wanted to transform GPE.
However, the Prime Minister has redefined the old normal in GPE where black money, corruption and cash flow in elections was considered normal, PERSON said, adding most activities earlier followed the practice of so much in cash and so much in cheque.
PTI PhotoAsserting that hard cash in GPE would become obsolete in the near future, Union Finance Minister PERSON on Monday said that digital payments like e-wallet system and mobile banking would rule the roost which would immensely benefit the people.
Digital payments are the future of financial transactions, PERSON said at the Punjab National Bank app launching ceremony held here.
The payments made by cards where service charge is currently high, which has been waived off till 31st December, would consequently become low once the volume of debit cards usage increases, PERSON said.
Further, about Rs 8,000 crore of credits in the undisclosed foreign accounts of Indians, whose names were disclosed by the International Consortium of Investigative Journalists (ICIJ), have been detected, Finance Minister PERSON said in a written reply to PERSON.
And the revenue department is not going to take notice of small depositors, Jaitley said.
Its only people with large amounts of undisclosed monies who will have to face the consequences under the tax laws, PERSON said at the Economic Editors conference.
WATCH VIDEO: People Que Up At Banks To Exchange GPE 500 & GPE 1000 Notes: Heres What They SaidOn whether the demonetisation of GPE 500/1000 notes will help weed out black money, PERSON said this is not an isolated initiative and the decision has to be seen in the backdrop of various steps being taken including GST roll out.
The decision has helped to get rid of exploitation of farmers by private money lenders, Fadnavis said on Sunday.
While claiming that total investments in agriculture sector would in his tenure of five years (2014-2019) would surpass the past records of 50 years, PERSON said, Rs 34,000 crore loan waiver to 89 lakh farmers would reach the truly deserving and genuine individuals.
Emphasising the significance of the cooperative sector in development, Chief Minister PERSON said how the demonestisation drive was a leap forward to fix corruption and deliver results and dividends to hardworking farmers across rural Maharashtra.
By providing POS machines to traders, we will help farmers buy farm inputs without cash, Fadnavis said.
Earlier, Chief Minister PERSON said those who were part of the earlier government were disappointed, as they were not able to get the Pune Metro project approved within their tenure.
A jubilant PERSON, who spearheaded BJP's poll campaign, said the party's core committee will decide the future course of action in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).
Fadnavis said the results are an ample indication that people have accepted Prime Minister PERSON's note ban move and the state government's transparency plank.
Fadnavis said the results of BMC and other municipal corporations has made the BJP more humble and that instead of indulging in mere talk, they would concentrate on good governance.
Representing the government, Attorney General PERSON told the bench: About GPE  3.25 lakh crore has been deposited with banks by people and the government expects the total to go up to GPE 10-11 lakh crore by March 2017 end.
Speaker PERSON said the bill had to be passed immediately because it was of urgent public importance.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said SPMCIL fulfils a sovereign function by printing currency notes, minting coins and printing non judicial papers and stamps.
Other ATMs which are yet to be recalibrated, will continue to dispense Rs 2000 till they are recalibrated, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON had said on Monday.
Those indulging in or colluding with money laundering or converting black money into white will not be spared, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said in a tweet.
At a separate briefing Thursday, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said that 50 per cent worth of the withdrawn currency would be in circulation by the end of the month.
Roughly whatever has been taken out by the end of the month, about at least 50 per cent of the notes which were in circulation, which were actually in circulation, at least 50 per cent of the notes would have been supplied in another 10-15 days, Das said.
For over the counter exchange of old GPE 500/1000 notes, with effect from Nov 18, GPE 4,500 limit will be reduced to GPE 2000, DEA Secretary PERSON said.
And central government employees, up to Type C, can withdraw their salary in advance up to GPE 10,000, Das said.
Announcing the use of indelible ink, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said: We have received reports that certain unscrupulous elements, who are trying to convert black money into white, have organised groups of innocent people and are sending them from one branch to another to exchange notes and get PERSON 4,500 each.
In GPE, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON also said that the government was keeping a close watch on deposits in PERSON accounts as, in many cases, such accounts are being misused for deposit of black money.
Considering the cash availability, (for) the business entity having current account for past three months, the limit has been increased to GPE per week to pay wages and meet sundry expenses, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said.
Each joint secretary has been assigned 3-4 states and banks for constant monitoring of currency supply situation and make action plan, Das said.
To solve this problem we have decided to use indelible ink marks, similar to the one used in elections, at cash counters, Das said.
Have been trying to analyse reasons for long queues,it has come to notice that same people are coming again at same place, Das said.
Addressing the media in GPE about Prime Ministers last night meeting to review the demonetisation and its impact, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said the ATM re-calibration has started and some of the ATMs will start dispensing higher denominations, including 2000 rupee notes, from today or tomorrow.
To solve this problem we have decided to use indelible ink marks, similar to the one used in elections, at cash counters, Das said.
Have been trying to analyse reasons for long queues,it has come to notice that same people are coming again at same place, Das said.
So, as far as toll plazas are concerned, the Ministry of Road, Transport and PERSON is advising vehicle manufacturers that in all new vehicles, the manufacturers must provide Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) facility, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters.
This will improve the functioning of toll plaza, digital payments, Das said.
Das further said all government offices have been asked to use only digital payment methods for making payments to stakeholders, contractors and employees.
(PTI) GPE, May 16: Union finance minister PERSON today said the day of reckoning had come for many and they would be held accountable for their misdeeds, seeking to defend the searches by government agencies on the premises of the Congress's P. Chidambaram and the RJD's PERSON.
Now, people in high positions acquiring assets through shell companies is not a small matter and I think the day of reckoning has come for many and they will be held accountable, PERSON said, asked about the Opposition's allegation that the CBI and the income tax department were being used to hound the BJP's rivals.
Jaitley said the income tax department and the CBI did not act unless they had substantial basis and reason to suspect tax evasion or other crimes.
While the panel declined to entertain their request, it has decided to call Department of Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON, Revenue Secretary PERSON and Financial Services Secretary PERSON Duggal one by one, instead of calling them together as per the earlier plan, said sources.
A jubilant PERSON, who spearheaded BJP's poll campaign, said the party's core committee will decide the future course of action in Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC).
Fadnavis said the results are an ample indication that people have accepted Prime Minister PERSON's note ban move and the state government's transparency plank.
Fadnavis said the results of BMC and other municipal corporations has made the BJP more humble and that instead of indulging in mere talk, they would concentrate on good governance.
Fadnavis asked the education department to issue instructions to universities to accept fees by cheque instead of DD and pay order.
Modi asked the now cash-flush banks to focus on the poor, lower middle class and middle class to deploy the money that has entered the system as people were forced to surrender huge stashes of the demonetised 1000- and 500-rupee notes.
Thanking the 125 crore citizens (who have) proved that for them truth and honesty is important despite inconveniences post demonetisation, Modi said corruption, black money and counterfeit currency had crippled the common man.
Union Finance Minister PERSON has said that the government's decision will move the country towards a cashless economy.
Reassuring the people that those having lawful money would have nothing to fear, Jaitley said this is a major setback to the parallel black money economy because a lot of currency operating outside the system will now have to be brought into the banking system.
GPE: Asserting that hard cash in GPE would become obsolete in the near future, Union Finance Minister PERSON on Monday said that digital payments like e-wallet system and mobile banking would rule the roost which would immensely benefit the people.
Digital payments are the future of financial transactions, PERSON said at the Punjab National Bank app launching ceremony held here.
The payments made by cards where service charge is currently high, which has been waived off till 31st December, would consequently become low once the volume of debit cards usage increases, PERSON said.
Jaitley said that cash can be gradually substituted through digital payments/transactions.
Union Finance Minister PERSON earlier in the day had said that deposits of the now defunct GPE. 500 and GPE. 1,000 currency notes in bank accounts will not enjoy immunity from tax.
After the government's decision of withdrawing GPE. 500 and GPE. 1,000 banknotes to curb black money, corruption and counterfeit currency, PERSON said that higher-denomination currency notes have to be deposited in bank accounts to get newer or smaller denomination currencies.
Depositing the old currency notes in the banks will not provide any relief from taxation, said PERSON.
Obviously there is some inconvenience for a couple of days or a couple of weeks, but that cannot be an alibi that GPE continues to live (with black money and parallel economy), PERSON said.
GPE: Union Finance Minister PERSON on Thursday said Prime Minister PERSON has created a 'new normal' for the country's economy by breaking all the stereotypes of the past through his demonetisation move.
Now there will be less cash transaction and increase in digital currency, Jaitley said to a gathering of intellectuals.
Speaking on Indian economy: The new normal in the aftermath of demonetisation, PERSON said for the first time such a decision came which was difficult to implement because one has to confront with many challenges.
Attempts by some political parties and a section of the media to provokethe people against the government have proved futile, PERSON said.
GPE: Union Finance Minister PERSON on Thursday said Prime Minister PERSON has created a new normal for the countrys economy by breaking all stereotypes of the past through his demonetisation move.
Now there will be less cash transaction and an increase in digital currency, Jaitley said.
Speaking on Indian economy: The new normal in the aftermath of demonetisation, PERSON said for the first time, such a decision was taken which was difficult to implement because of many challenges that came with it.
Attempts by some political parties and a section of the media to provoke people against the Government have proved futile, PERSON said.
Union Finance Minister PERSON has said the government's decision will move the country towards a cashless economy.
Reassuring the people that those having lawful money would have nothing to fear, Jaitley said this is a major setback to the parallel black money economy because a lot of currency operating outside the system will now have to be brought into the banking system.
Union Finance Minister PERSON told the BJP MPs that the demonetisation would help GPE embrace digital economy.
Inaugurating the village-level DigiDhan Mela here this morning, chief minister PERSON said if there is more than one village that achieves the feat, the government would conduct a lucky draw to select the winner.
The government will take many more innovative steps to make Assam the first state to achieve the target of 100 per cent cashless and digital transactions, PERSON said.
Sonowal said cashless payments have the potential to root out corruption from the system and urged the citizens to adopt cashless transactions as a way of life.
Each bank must take steps to include those workers still out of the banking system according to the list prepared in coordination with the tea garden management, PERSON told a high-level meeting involving representatives from the Reserve Bank of India, State Bank of India, Union Bank of India and tea associations.
Each bank must take steps to include workers still out of the banking system according to the list prepared in coordination with the tea garden management, PERSON had said on November 21.
Chief minister PERSON, who was also present, said GST has removed the sense of alienation and deprivation from the minds of the people of the Northeast by providing huge tax benefits.
Sonowal said his government will appoint nodal officers temporarily in every circle to help the taxpayers to register themselves under GST.
It is people's mandate for the Prime Minister's decision of demonetisation, PERSON told reporters.
After taking charge, chief minister PERSON had asked the department to increase revenue collection.
If any government official or person seeks money in the name of giving a house, please lodge a complaint by using these helpline numbers for action, PERSON said.
Ahead of Bangladeshi Prime Minister PERSON's visit to GPE, GPE said GPE was a strong partner and a good friend and both countries would continue to work together to contribute towards peace, security and development of the entire region.
Minister of state for finance PERSON told PERSON that GPE  15.44 lakh crore in high-value notes were in circulation when the Prime Minister announced the demonetisation move on November 8.
Chief minister PERSON has asked the CID to fasttrack the probe and nab all culprits involved in duping the government.
Replying to another question, Meghwal said it was informed by RBI in December 2015 that they have received some banknotes of Rs 1,000 without having security thread which were printed at Currency Note Press (CNP), PERSON, on paper supplied by Security Paper Mill (SPM), GPE.
Meghwal further said action has been taken to strengthen quality procedure and online inspection system in manufacturing process and special training has been given to the persons concerned to avoid such types of mistakes in future.
Meghwal said that about  23.2 per cent of the economic activity is shadow economy and government's push to cashless transactions will widen the tax bracket.
GPE in turn said the provision would not be enforced retrospectively.
GPE said there were approximately one lakh branches of various banks and two lakh ATMs besides the post offices across the country to dispense cash to common people and the restriction on withdrawal is there to ensure that the money be paid to maximum number of people.
Attorney General PERSON, appearing for the Centre, said that the government is aware of the situation in co-operative banks which lack proper infrastructure and mechanism as compared to scheduled banks.
GPE said, Several cases are filed each passing day in various high courts on various aspects post demonetisation and it is not possible to deal with cases simultaneously in GPE, GPE, GPE and GPE.
GPE told the apex court that general rule is that the cash transactions in the market should not be more than four per cent of the GDP but it is 12 per cent in GPE.
Attorney General PERSON, appearing for the Centre, had said that the government was aware of the situation in cooperative banks which lack proper infrastructure and mechanism as compared to scheduled banks.
Speaker PERSON said since the bill is of urgent public importance, it has to be passed immediately.
GPE: The withdrawal limit of savings bank account of Rs 24,000 per week will soon go, and the government is in discussions with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to issue lower-denomination notes, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said here on Friday.
Das said the remonetisation exercise the government had launched on November 8, 2016, which involved scrapping of Rs 500 and Rs 1,000 denominations notes, is nearly complete.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON also said a time limit for farmers to pay crop insurance premiums has been extended by 15 days.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said SPMCIL fulfils a sovereign function by printing currency notes, minting coins and printing non judicial papers and stamps.
GPE: Battling the oppositions criticism on its sudden move to ban the big currency notes to check black or untaxed money, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON on Friday said the people who are indulging in or colluding with money laundering or converting black money into white will not be spared.
GPE: All automatic teller machines (ATMs) will be re-calibrated in the next few days to ease the flow of currency notes and to reduce the inconvenience faced by the public, says the Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON.
The enhanced fund limit by NABARD for district central cooperative banks will be passed on to the primary agricultural cooperative societies and they will get activated and will meet the crop loan requirement of the farmers for PERSON season, said PERSON.
If additional sanction limit is required, over and above the Rs 21,000 crore limits, it can be sanctioned by NABARD, said PERSON.
The required cash will be made available, said PERSON.
The entire banking structure is geared up to meet the situation, said PERSON.
There will be no charge on use of debit cardsthe move will help in greater penetration of digital transactions into our economy and hope that more and more people will move to digital transactions, said PERSON.
It is already happening, said PERSON.
The governments intention is also to increase digital transaction and ensure that more and more people migrate to digital money, said PERSON.
Backing the governments decision, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON earlier today said that there was a need to revive the currency as the value of rupee has depreciated after 2001, adding notes of Rs. 1,000 will be introduced in due course.
Throwing light on the other logical reasons behind the government deciding to infuse the new currency, Das said: Firstly, the logistical reason behind the very decision was to make it convenient for the citizens to exchange or deposit the old notes and get the value out of the new notes.
Das further said the RBI is going to closely monitor and regulate the release of GPE. 2000 note, adding the central bank will in due course infuse notes of GPE. 1000 in the market with a new design, dimension and color combination, which will look different from the old ones.
Das said that the provision of Electronics Product Code Global Incorporated (EPCG)-compliant RFID (Radio-frequency ID) facility in all new vehicles will ensure payment of toll digitally.
Up to Rs 50,000 can be deposited in PERSON accounts, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters here.
Das said the legitimate Jan-Dhan account holders would not be put to any kind of difficulty.
Das said, PERSON account holders should not allow other people to use their accounts to convert their black money into white.
In a few months, GPE notes with new features will be brought into the market, said Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON while addressing the Economic Editors Conference.
6:56: Modi says under his government the poor got affordable medicines, 104 satellites were launched in a single flight.
kumar uttam (@meetuttam) May 26, 20173:56pm: I want to assure people of GPE that the Kashmir situation will soon be brought under control, says GPE Shah3:53pm: PERSON govt has met peoples aspirations, says GPE Shah3:51pm: Ease of doing business improved, FDI inflow grew, says GPE Shah3:50pm: GPE has grown as an economic leader, says Shah3:48pm: BJP president GPE Shah speaks to media on 3 years of GPE: NE of Northeast would mean New Economy, New Energy, New Empowerment, New Engine, says PM PERSON2:32pm: PM Narendra PERSON launches PERSON for Agro Marine Processing and Development of Agro Processing Clusters2:29pm: In New GPE, we have to move towards ever green revolution, says PM PERSON: If northeast starts working in this (organic farming) direction, GPE can become one of the biggest centres of organic farming, says PM PERSON2:26pm: In northeast, the likelihood of organic farming is very high: PM2:24pm: We laid emphasis on Pradhan Mantri Krishi PERSON, says GPE: We cant bring change in the country through tokenism, says PM PERSON at his PERSON rally2:17pm: Our dream is to double farmers income by 2022, the year when GPE completes 75 years of Independence: PM PERSON2:15pm: We want to bring modernisation in agriculture, says PERSON: PM Narendra PERSON is addressing another rally in Assams PERSON12:19pm: PM renames GPE Sadiya Bridge as PERSON: Within the first year of BJP rule in Assam, the state is getting rid of many of its problems, says PM PERSON12:14pm: The bridge will save time, says PERSON: The bridge will be a link in the development of two states- PERSON and Assam: PM12:10pm: Prime Minister PERSON says the bridge will bring an economic revolution12:08pm: This bridge will open new avenues for the farmers, says PM PERSON in PERSON: It is a proud moment for the country that GPEs longest bridge has been constructed in Assam, says PM PERSON12:00pm: PM PERSON is addressing a rally in GPE, Assam11:50am: Congress leader PERSON said BJP spending Rs 2000 cr on PERSON years of PERSON govt can be summed up as Bhashan aur aashwaasan, yeh hai mera shaasanFuturistic infrastructure that will power GPE's growth.
10:10am: PM Modi arrives in Dibrugarh to inaugurate Dhola-Sadiya bridge and other projects (ANI Photo)9:00 am: Prime Minister PERSON said these years have seen concrete steps that have transformed the lives of the people.
Spelling out advantages of demonetisation, Meghwal said that it will help lower interest rate.
Spelling out advantages of demonetisation, Meghwal said that it will help lower interest rate.
Assuring relief to the MSME sector, Meghwal said the next budget will look into their concerns.
Spelling out advantages of demonetisation, Meghwal said that it will help lower interest rate.
With regard to the Goods and Services Tax (GST), Meghwal said the government intends to implement it from April 1.
In a written reply to PERSON, GPE said: No high quality FICN has been recovered post demonetisation.
As regards seizure of FICN of 2,000 denomination by BSF and NIA on the GPE-Bangladesh border, Meghwal said: The forensic lab had reported the use of stamp paper in printing these notes.
(PTI Photo)Demonetisation has narrowed the gap between rich and poor and will help boost GDP growth, Minister of State for Finance Arjun Ram Meghwal told PERSON Monday.
Replying to a debate on demand for grants (general budget), which the House passed by voice vote, Meghwal said the Opposition has been questioning demonetisation but the verdict in UP and other states had proved people stood with PM Narendra Modi.
On advancing of the Budget presentation date, criticised by Opposition parties, Meghwal said the decision was based on the recommendation of the group of secretaries.
The Reserve Bank of India procures papers for printing new currency notes of Rs 2000 and Rs 500 from existing suppliers, Meghwal said in reply to a separate question.
Asked about recalibration of ATMs and banks, Meghwal said out of total  2.18 lakh ATMs across the country, around  1.98 lakh have been recalibrated as on January 4, 2017.
Two factories were unearthed in GPE and a case was registered Fake coins of GPE 5 and GPE 10 denomination valuing over GPE  6.37 lakh in Indian currency were recovered, Meghwal said.
Ninety-one deaths do not occur when people do not have money, Mr. PERSON said.
But our objective is to wipe out black money and end terror financing, Mr. PERSON said.
In a written reply to PERSON, GPE said: No high quality FICN has been recovered post demonetisation.
As regards seizure of FICN of 2,000 denomination by BSF and NIA on the GPE-Bangladesh border, Meghwal said: The forensic lab had reported the use of stamp paper in printing these notes.
In a separate reply, when asked how much old Rs 500 and GPE notes (SBNs) were deposited/exchanged upon being de-legalised, Meghwal said specified bank notes (SBNs) worth Rs  12.44 lakh crore were returned to currency chests of RBI by December 10, 2016.
Former finance minister P Chidambaram, who was elected to PERSON in June, had said the government could accommodate Congress demand for mentioning the GST rate cap in the Constitution (122nd Amendment) or PERSON through skilful drafting.
Drabu told members that it was is in the interest of J&K to shift to the new tax regime to protect the interests of the State and all stakeholders.
Trying to clear apprehension of opposition and traders, Finance Minister PERSON said PERSON can enact a comprehensive GST law, where tax will be levied corresponding to aggregate SGST and CGST".
Drabu told members that it was is in the interest of J&K to shift to the new tax regime to protect the interests of the State and all stakeholders.
After the passage of GST bill with voice vote, Drabu said new tax regime will roll out in the state at midnight, making J&K the last state to join the GST.
Drabu said the Proviso-3 of the Presidential Order clearly states that notwithstanding anything contained in this order, the powers of J&K as per Section-5 of the Constitution of State, shall remain intact.
Drabu said all necessary safeguards to GPE of the J&K State Constitution and those enshrined in Article-370 of the Indian Constitution have been incorporated in the Presidential order regarding which apprehensions were expressed by some legislators during the discussion on the GST legislation.
After the passage of GST bill with voice vote, Drabu said new tax regime will roll out in the state at midnight, making J&K the last state to join the GST.
Drabu said the Proviso-3 of the Presidential Order clearly states that notwithstanding anything contained in this order, the powers of J&K as per Section-5 of the Constitution of State, shall remain intact.
Drabu said all necessary safeguards to GPE of the J&K State Constitution and those enshrined in Article-370 of the Indian Constitution have been incorporated in the Presidential order regarding which apprehensions were expressed by some legislators during the discussion on the GST legislation.
Reacting to the demand of opposition to bring a separate GST law for J&K, Drabu said alternative law will require amending constitution of J&K and of GPE.
, Prasad said after the meeting, adding that this is something I am considering for replication in our larger vision for PERSON initiative.
1 bn GPE cards soonTalking about GPE, Nilekani said 910 million people have the cards and this number will reach one billion by March 2016.
A day isn't far away when banks have no premises or paper, PM Modi said.
GPE as the foundation of electronic transfer of benefits to beneficiaries of various social sector schemes should yield significant benefits, said Nandan Nilekani, Chairman, UIDAI, addressing a press conference in GPE on Friday.
GPE example of using technology to leapfrog: PERSON, Oct 16, 2013, (PTI) : 9:29 ISTGPE project is an example ofusingmodern technology to leapfrog for future development and transformation of a country, UIDAI chairman PERSON has said.
PERSON Delhi (PTI): The government has set a target to enrol about 60 crore people by the end of 2014 under the Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) enabled GPE cards, its chairperson Nandan Nilekani said on Thursday.
GPE project is to solve the problem of people who do not have an acknowledgement of their existence by people and the state or lack of acknowledgement of their identity, he said.
GPE project would use today's latest and modern technology , said Dr. PERSON.
Aadhaar will provide a big platform to fight corruption, said UIDAI Chairman PERSON, who is expected to contest forthcoming PERSON elections on Congress ticket.
Aadhar chairman PERSON said all certified partners would be able to embed authentication features in their applications.
Addressing a well-attended public meeting, PERSON said a mobile phone would soon replace premises-less, paperless banking system.
Addressing the 8th Civil Services Day, Singh said his government has made sustained efforts to curb corruption and enhance transparency and accountability in public works.
After reviewing the existing arrangements for the administration of pension disbursement under NSAP, immediate action must be taken for updating and completing database of all pension beneficiaries; seeding the NSAP database with the bank/post office account details as well as Aadhar number; use of bank/post office account number to transfer the pension amount and launching a drive to enrol pensioners who have not so far enrolled for Aadhar in order to position NSAP for DBT, Ramesh said in a letter.
After the BJP government took charge, Prime Minister PERSON had asked UIDAI to fast-track the enrolment process.
AGARTALA: Union minister PERSON has said 'GPE' numbers, the unique 12-digit identification numbers given to residents of GPE, would be used to provide different social pensions, MGNREGA wages to workers and scholarships to students.
And then we definitely intend to roll it out by April, PERSON told reporters here.
And those who don't have phones need simply use their Aadhar cards to make payments at micro-ATMs, Nilekani said.
And we must recognise the value of it as an anti-corruption platform, PERSON said during an event.
As Nandan Nilekani says, with the use of Aadhar-enabled eKYC, shifting from one operator to another (number portability) can be done in 15 minutes against up to seven days now.
As of now, 14 banks have come on board for PERSON and the service will be launched soon, Prasad said told reporters.
As sensors get popular and cheaper, the next generation of smartphones will have iris cameras built into them, Nilekani said.
PERSON, Deputy Director-General (Tech Centre), Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI), said here on Saturday that the UIDAI is working with various State governments to integrate GPE with various social sector service delivery programmes, for efficient delivery of services to the beneficiaries.
PERSON, Deputy Director-General, UIDAI Regional Office, Bangalore, said while the response to the project has so far been excellent, there is no deadline to get the UID.
Asked if the Union government has proposed to link any project with Aadhaar, Nilekani said organizations like Central Board for Direct Taxes that issues PAN and passport offices have expressed interest in liking up.
At a recent high-level meeting of PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance And Timely Implementation), Modi asked Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) and chief secretaries of states such as UP and GPE which are lagging behind to accelerate and complete enrollment of all residents by December 2015.
At Dudu only, GPE enabled system of social sector, PERSON National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and pension scheme will be implemented, UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of GPE) chairman PERSON told reporters here.
Authority chairperson PERSON said the goal now was to increase enrolments.
Bank Mitras need to be enabled to carry out GPE card and PERSON enabled transactions in villages itself, the PM said.
BENGALURU: Former UIDAI chairman PERSON said a sub $100 smartphone with an iris-recognition camera would be available in a year or two and that would enable users to do a one-click two factor authentication  the mobile number would be one factor and the iris-based biometric authentication of GPE number would be the second.
BENGALURU: GPE's unique digital identity platform GPE and the rapid rise in smartphone usage open up a whole new way of looking at applications, said Nandan Nilekani, former UIDAI chairman.
Briefing reporters here, UIDAI Chairman PERSON said the electronic Know Your Customer (eKYC) service from UIDAI will enhance customer convenience and greatly increase business efficiency across sectors that require proof of identity and address to open customer accounts.
BSNL PERSON telecom district general manager KL Jairam said, There will no longer be need to produce photocopies of identity proofs and photographs.
But he said the GPE platform lent itself to numerous other possibilities - including as an electronic KYC (know your customer) and to transfer money between two people.
But PERSON said legislation cannot stop just because the court is considering a related matter.
But LinkedIns involvement in skilling professionals, to be exposed to good job opportunities also were talked about detail, Prasad said.
But overall, the entire State will be covered by March 2014, Nilekani said and added that the State had been in the forefront of the GPE programme and the linkage with direct benefit transfer schemes had also been a success in GPE.
By giving benefits directly to the needy, complaints of dishonesty and delay will reduce, Singh said at a function where he handed over Aadhar number '21 crore' to a villager here.
Claiming that the social benefits of a universal identity system was immense, Mr. PERSON said, In the long-term, the card would reduce the number of bogus ration cards, and could even help in extending credit to the rural poor when they use their GPE number for transactions.
Considering security issues flagged by home ministry, Nilekani said the Authority will do a complete review of its strategy over the next six to eight weeks.
Defending his stand to contest on a Congress ticket in the light of several corruption charges the party was facing, Nilekani said: Please understand that Aadhaar is the worlds largest anti-corruption platform.
Delivering the Eighth Annual PERSON Lecture 'Technology to Leapfrog Development: The Aadhaar Experience' organised by Center for Global Development - a Washington- based think-tank, Nilekani said UIDAI has leveraged the state of the art technology of the present days to provide unique identification number to every resident of the country.
Demonetisation +Times of GPE LitFest +GPE:will hasten the digitisation of the financial economy and financial inclusion, said Nandan Nilekani , former Chairman of the Unique Identification Authority of GPE, at thetoday.
Demonetisation to push digital economy, says GPE, Nov 28, 2016, PTI: 22:21 ISTDemonetisation would see a massive activation of digitisation of financial services in the country, although there will be some amount of short term pain in the coming weeks, former UIDAI Chairman PERSON said today.
Eighty per cent of the two million individuals, who have been enrolled for the unique Aadhar number so far, have requested for bank accounts, said Nilekani while addressing the Nasscom Leadership Forum 2011.
Emphasizing on government's commitment to take all legal and administrative measures to curb the menace of corruption, the PM cited examples of the Citizen's Charter and the Electronic Delivery of Services bills that were introduced in Parliament last year.
end-to-end security of resident data has also been given major priority, said PERSON, Deputy Director-General, UIDAI.
Even countries which are technologically far more advanced than GPE with comparatively much smaller size population do not have such a system in place, said Mukherjee, while complimenting the government for promotion of digital transactions.
Every business, he said, could be re-imagined through a smartphone.
Every month 2 crore accounts are being seeded with GPE, Prasad said.
Explaining further, Nilekani said: (Director PERSON of UIDAI) Ram Sewak Sharma's powers are delegated by the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission.
Finance Minister PERSON, while clarifying the points raised by members, said it had been judicially settled in many countries, including GPE, that if an individual wants to claim specific government benefits, asking him or her to enrol for a GPE like programme is not unjust.
First UID number was doled out on September 29, 2010, at a village in Maharashtra within 14 months of the project taking off whereas the deadline was set at 18 months, he said, adding that they were confident of issuing 60 crore GPE numbers by 2014 as per the target planned.
First, we will introduce the targeted delivery of financial and other subsidiary benefits services by using the GPE framework.
GANDHINAGAR: Chief minister PERSON has asked officials to expedite the issuing of Aadhar cards and take up this campaign on mission mode.
Giving the details, Nilekani said the authority has distributed over 34 crore cards as against 40 crore enrolment.
Giving the details, Nilekani said the authority has distributed over 34 crore cards as against 40 crore enrolment.
Hailing the scheme as the countrys first totally GPE-based cash transfer programme, Ms. PERSON said the Central governments PERSON system would be implemented in 51 districts from January 1, 2013, facilitating cash entitlement in a total of 32 schemes.
Having participated in a daylong discussion with officials from GPE, GPE and GPE besides representatives of national-level registrars like banks, LICI, post offices and other central government agencies notified as national registrars, Nilekani said UIDAI has achieved the targets well within time.
He also added that in the Wednesdays informal meeting there was an agreement that both the projects could move ahead and ways could be found to avoid avoidable duplication.
He also said the government needs to make full use of new and modern technology not only in delivery of public services but in governance in general.
He also spoke about the special task force constituted by the Union ministry of finance to directly link subsidies on LPG, kerosene and fertilizers with GPE number holders.
He expressed hope that the government would increase the number of micro-ATMs in the country to one million from the current 130,000, and said cashless transactions will completely remove bureaucracy from the country.
He said the government was setting up a company called GSTM, a gigantic goods and services tax platform to house all data related to it.
He urged upon the people to support the campaign of the government for the less cash society.
However, GPE, Nilekani said has taken up the largest bio-metric project in the world for developmental work.
I am now pushing my team to bring it down for completing it in single-digit minutes.
I congratulate you for your extraordinary efforts, the PM said in his email.
I want to really emphasise that Aadhar platform is the biggest anti-corruption platform in the world.
If the cashless economy is a chariot, the BHIM app is the charioteer.
If you build platforms and open it up to innovators to build apps, we will see the trajectory of the economy change, he said.
Imagination is the limit as far as what applications could be built upon the Aadhar platform, Nilekani said.
In GPE, the second phase of the enrolment would begin in the first week of November, Mr. PERSON said.
In GPE and Chamarajnagar, around 354 gram panchayath have high-speed Internet connection with OFC, and another 44 are identified for new connections, Jairam said.
In the next few months we will cross 60 crore.
In the next phase, the operations would be scaled up in the entire GPE district, UIDAI chief PERSON said.
Increasingly with UPI coming in and wallet companies becoming payments banks, their coming on to the UPI platform will make them interoperable, said Nilekani.
Introducing himself as a Koramangalite, who has been in that part of the city for 20 years, Nandan said Bangalore has enormous energy and ideas to solve problems.
It began with messaging, and now has added voice, said Nilekani, explaining the same movement happening in the finance sector.
It is a government programme, Chidambaram said at the news conference.
It need not be linked to any religion, but it's necessary to teach people to be content, love and not to develop a self-centric attitude which breeds hatred, he said.
It will also help in curbing wastages and leakages, and result in greater financial inclusion, Singh said.
It will be second PERSON enabled destination after PERSON, BSNL PERSON telecom district general manager KL Jairam said.
It will lead to better targeting of subsidies and reducing delays in the delivery of benefits such as scholarships and pensions to the intended beneficiaries.
Jaitley also said the GPE should be linked with filing of income tax returns to curb tax evasions.
Jaitley said that a critical component of minimum government and maximum governance is to ensure targeted disbursement of government subsidies to actual beneficiaries.
Later, Nilekani told reporters that one million business correspondents would help making huge government payments of benefits and subsidies of about GPE 3 lakh crore through electronic mode, every year.
Lets assume there is no GPE but some information that is contained in some network gets hacked or gets leaked, that is because of the technology used there, PERSON said.
LPG, kerosene and fertilisers have been put up on a phased approach (for the direct transfers), Nilekani said.
MELBOURNE: GPE project is an example of using modern technology to leapfrog for future development and transformation of a country, UIDAI chairman PERSON has said.
Modi outlines GPE: March 3, 2015, DHNS: 2:40 ISTReading out virtually a report card on his government's performance in the last nine months, Prime Minister PERSON on Tuesday said the central schemes launched in the last few months are meant for the poor and the marginalised section of the society and not for the rich as his government is often accused of.
Modi reviews fencing work on GPE-Bangla GPE, Nov 5, 2015, DHNS: 2:15 ISTReviewing the progress of fencing on GPE-Bangladesh border, Prime Minister PERSON on Wednesday asked officials to ensure that the work is completed as early as possible as there should be no compromise on national security.
Modi said the banks should redouble efforts in financial literacy and seeding of Aadhar numbers with bank accounts needs to improve.
Modi said the BHIM app is unstoppable.
Mr. PERSON told The Hindu that UIDAI systems have a capacity to generate  1.2 million GPE daily.
Ms. PERSON said the city government had decided to provide assistance to 25 lakh people under the first phase.
MUMBAI: UIDAI chairman PERSON said IT platforms could open up a huge app economy, transforming the way healthcare and education services are delivered in the country.
MYSORE: For the marginalized, illiterate and vulnerable groups, Aadhaar will come as a boon to would turn into boon for marginalized or vulnerable groups to get access many services with a help of single identity number opined, said Nandan Nilekani, chairman, Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI).
Nandan Nilekani , UIDAI chairman, said the remittance facility demonstrated one of the many uses of GPE.
Nandan Nilekani This is a great step forward, said Supreme Court advocate PERSON who specialises in cyber laws.
Nandan Nilekani, regarded as the father of the GPE card idea, had said soon after the card was made mandatory for direct benefit transfers in this year's budget that this has become central to the government's transformation agenda and will help clear ambiguity in the courts.
National Informatics Centre (NIC) is in the process of making 100 Government websites divyang friendly of which 16 have already been made divyang friendly, Prasad said, as he urged NGOs and citizens to use My Gov to provide valuable inputs on central schemes.
Nearly 20 lakh people have been enrolled in the state and the process of enrolment is going on at a good pace, Nilekani said while admitting that two other states that come under GPE regional office of GPE and GPE have of late started picking pace.
GPE: Centre's ambitious direct cash transfer scheme will help in better targeting of subsidies and reducing delay in delivery of benefits besides curbing wastages and leakages, Prime Minister PERSON said on Sunday.
GPE: Chairing a meeting of Union Council of Ministers ahead of the completion of two years of the government on Thursday, Prime Minister PERSON asked his ministerial colleagues to focus on carrying the initiatives taken by the dispensation to the grassroots.
GPE: President PERSON on Sunday said that the GPE card initiative is a watershed event in the development of the country.
GPE: Prime Minister PERSON on Friday said the government had moved substantially forward in curbing corruption and improving public services delivery system in the last one year, but admitted that there was still a long way to go to ensure transparency, accountability and probity in public life.
Nilekani added that UID would create for the first time in the country a national devices' infrastructure that is inter-operable .
Nilekani also said Kumar never raised a single question against the project in the Parliament.
Nilekani also said that UID is working with the Ministry of Finance and the Department of Financial Services on financial inclusion, with Oil Ministry on LPG subsidy reforms, with Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers on fertilizer reforms, Human Resource Development Ministry on integration of Aakash and Department of Telecom for providing Aadhar as know your customer (KYC) for mobile connections.
Nilekani said Aadhaar has more than 55 crore people into its enrolment and in the next few months it will cross the 60-crore mark.
Nilekani said GPE identity cards were accepted as valid documents under the Know Your Customer (KYC) norms for opening bank accounts, securing mobile connections and getting cooking gas connections.
Nilekani said PERSON would make the life of GPE's 400 million migrants simpler.
Nilekani said e-KYC could be embraced by entities such as insurance companies and mutual funds.
Nilekani said one major application was for the government to target subsidies at the intended beneficiaries.
Nilekani said ordinary citizens should join politics and he would like to be part of this movement.
Nilekani said plans are on track to issue GPE numbers to 600 million (60 crore) people in three to three-and-half years.
Nilekani said the Aadhaar cards, already distributed among 60 crore people, will touch the 100 crore mark by the end of 2015.
Nilekani said, In a few days, we will be starting online authentication of address and identity.
Nilekani, an ex-IT czar, said rural job and pension schemes along with public distribution system can be linked to Aadhar numbers.
No agency linked to any foreign agency is there in this, Prasad said, adding that once the biometrics is collected, it gets encrypted immediately and its sanctity is maintained.
Not only will this service streamline the process of on-boarding new customers but it will also simplify the process of linking existing customer accounts to their respective GPE numbers in an easy, yet secure manner, said Nilekani.
Noting that this unique identification number is now becoming an internal passport and gateway to various services for Indians, Nilekani said by working with various regulators they have ensured that this ID is sufficient to get their services.
Noting that unfortunately, the PERSON and Lokayuktas' Bills could not be passed in the last session of Parliament, Singh said he does hope that the government would soon be able to enact a strong PERSON law.
Now there is a robust legisation that has laid down the entire format of how the biometric data will be collected, processed, stored and under what terms and conditions will it be used, Prasad said.
Observing that at present, over 113 crore residents in GPE have GPE, Prasad said that GPE is safe, let me say proudly that the data is secure.
On allegation that GPE is given to illegal immigrants, Nilekani said: GPE only gives you a unique identity, not a citizenship card.
On the BJPs promise to shut down the GPE system as it is allegedly helping illegal GPE immigrants to enrol, Nilekani said: Its very clearly mentioned that GPE is only an ID card and does not prove ones citizenship.
On transparency issue, Nilekani said: We follow every government process and procurement procedures to the key.
Once you pass the PERSON, the PERSON will lay off the matter, Nilekani reportedly told Jaitely, sources close to UIDAI said.
One of our biggest supporters, the finance minister has been extremely gracious and supportive, and he has always sent me the message that we should do this as fast as we can, PERSON told reporters at the first anniversary of GPE launch.
One out of every two citizens will have the number by next year, Nilekani said at the Sir MV Memorial Award presentation function organized by FKat Vidhana Soudha on Sunday.
Only subsidies, cost of which are fully borne by states, won't come under the GPE law, he added.
Our government wants to use new technology in a big way to curb dishonesty and bring transparency in governance.
Participating in a programme organised by the UIDAI to mark the first anniversary of the launch of GPE enrolments in the country, Mr. PERSON said the authority, which began its task with a modest capacity to enrol 1,000 members a day a year ago, was now capable of enrolling 10 lakh persons a day.
Power2SME has a unique business model that focuses on making SMEs bankable and profitable and am excited to watch the growth journey of this company as it continues to contribute in strengthening the SME social fabric of the nation, Nandan Nilekani said.
Prasad said the government saved about Rs 50,000 crore LPG subsidy due to the linking of GPE card with PERSON accounts.
Prasad said, The higher the linkages with the GPE number, the more we have in terms of seamless digital transactions.
Prasad told TOI the new law kills the mandatory versus voluntary debate as it did not prohibit anyone from accepting government benefits, but it encourages the use of GPE.
Prime minister PERSON on Friday said that three pension schemes of the rural development ministry would be included under the programme.
Prime Minister PERSON has also asked the ministers to impress upon the global corporate giants to look at GPE as a huge databank, which could offer great business opportunity to them, sources added.
Quick verificationThe pilot project on opening bank accounts with Aadhar information is operational in three banks in Tumkur district of GPE, UIDAI chairman PERSON told Deccan Herald.
Rahul asked partymen to be involved in constructive work like helping to link people to the system and securing Aadhar membership, Union minister PERSON and AICC general secretary PERSON told reporters.
Ramesh said banking correspondents would be engaged for delivery of payments to beneficiaries.
RANCHI: Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) chairman PERSON asked chief minister PERSON to issue a notification declaring GPE numbers as the basis of identity and residential proof of the GPE number holder, following which different service delivery mechanisms could be lawfully linked with the beneficiary.
READ | PM Modi Independence Day speech: Transparency seems to be the highlight, PM says processes simplifiedHeres the full text of Prime Minister PERSON speech: You also can read the highlights here.
Read more hereFinance minister PERSON counters critique: Yes, we are making GPE mandatoryDuring a discussion on the Finance PERSON, which was passed in the evening on Wednesday, PERSON said the government was in favour of making GPE mandatory for all citizens, saying why cant it be when 98 per cent of the citizens already have it.
Read more hereFinance minister PERSON counters critique: Yes, we are making GPE mandatoryDuring a discussion on the Finance PERSON, which was passed in the evening on Wednesday, PERSON said the government was in favour of making GPE mandatory for all citizens, saying why cant it be when 98 per cent of the citizens already have it.
Second phaseOn a query on why the PERSON enrolment was stopped in February this year, Mr. PERSON said the UIDAI had covered 20 crore people assigned to it by the Central government in February.
Singh also referred to the government's plan to implement national e-governance scheme and providing Aadhar numbers.
Singh, however, said the internal security situation in the last one year was by and large peaceful and lauded the states for their efforts in maintaining peace.
Singh, while addressing a conference of chief secretaries here, said that the government was moving forward on framing a law for regulating public procurement and he also hoped that the Centre would soon be able to enact a strong PERSON law.
Speaking about the enrolments, Nilekani said that the 12-digit unique identity number -- Aadhar -- has been provided to 37 million people across the country and very soon over one million people will enrol for unique identity number every day.
Speaking at the inauguration of the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme in LPG subsidy, UIDAI Chairman PERSON said on Saturday that the State government and the Authority would launch a massive enrolment drive in the next few months.
Speaking at the same programme earlier, UIDAI Chairman PERSON had said the authority will beat the target of generating 60 crore GPE numbers before schedule in the next few months.
Stating that good education is an indispensable first step towards creating more success stories like his, UIDAI chairman PERSON said: .
Stating that RGI's work was proceeding well and is expected to be completed by mid-2013, Chidambaram said the UIADI was also authorised to collect biometric data initially for 100 million people, and later of up to 200 million people.
Supporting the direct transfer scheme, Ms. PERSON said it would benefit a large number of unreached, vulnerable and poor households.
Talking at the Nasscom Product Conclave here, UID Chairman PERSON said that the GPE government had launched global positioning system (GPS) in the 90s and later in the 2000s it was made available for commercial purposes.
The Aadhaar integrated services would ensure that the services reached the right person, preventing wastage or diversion of benefits, Mr. PERSON said.
The ambitious project - which has issued unique identification numbers to more than 380 million people, which is large than the population of several large countries in just a few years - would still take a few more years before every Indian resident is issued with this unique number and the card having the biometric information of the individual, PERSON told a GPE audience.
The application would also deduct the money from the individual and credit it to the kiranas account, Nilekani said.
The Authority had already enrolled 200 million people, Nilekani said after receiving the honorary doctorate from the Central University of Karnataka, Gulbarga, here on Saturday.
The centres will facilitate enrolment of residents left out during the camps organised by registrars in the past and also facilitate biometric and demographic update, UIDAI chairman PERSON said.
The digital ID works even if they move places, he said, adding that the passport department, EPFO and other government departments would soon start using Aadhaar.
The digital ID works even if they move places, he said, adding that the passport department, EPFO and other government departments would soon start using Aadhaar.
The finance minister said he was confident about rolling out the scheme smoothly despite some early teething problems.
The focus should be enrolling the weaker and marginalized sections as most of the state and central beneficiary schemes are linked to Aadhar, Siddaramaiah said.
The goal, Nilekani said, is to achieve widespread diffusion of GPE platform knowledge across new entrepreneurial ventures and existing software companies to assist and nurture GPE capabilities.
The home minister said the decision will speed up both UID and NPR processes and the entire country will be covered by June, 2013.
The pain caused by the currency ban will remain for some more time, but the extent of digitisation that will happen over the next three months now, would have normally taken place in a three-year time frame, Nilekani said.
The Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana provides a platform for changing the economic condition of our people, PERSON told bankers in his email.
The programme picked up steam after Prime Minister PERSON said in May last year that this will be rolled out nationally.
The target for the pilot project was 85,000 consumers, of which about 50,000 have been covered, Mr. PERSON said.
The thumb that once was a symbol of illiteracy will now be a powerful tool thanks to the technology marvel, said PERSON.
The UID authority has promised to review procedures and then carry on with the data collection, Chidambaram said at a joint news conference he addressed with Nilekani and Planning Commission deputy chairperson PERSON.
The whole process can be made paperless, said UIDAI chairman PERSON at the workshop in GPE aimed at the banking and telecom sectors.
The world over, when you do a financial transaction, you do a one factor authentication, but In GPE, we have a two factor authentication.
There should not be any discrimination), said PERSON, addressing a rally in GPE district.
This feat alone should motivate you, as well as others to work to make our dreams a reality, the PM said.
This is not a tactical, but a strategic partnership, where GPEAI will leverage the existing infrastructure of the DoP to reach out to the masses for providing GPE, GPEAI Chairman PERSON said while signing the agreement.
This is the kind of safeguards we have given that the biometrics of an ordinary person even in case of national security cannot be opened unless certified by this level of higher authorities, Prasad said.
This is the next phase of Pradhan Mantri Jan-Dhan Yojana, the PM said.
This makes it not only one of the most accurate, but soon to be the largest biometric system in the world, UIDAI Chairman PERSON said in a statement here.
This simple accessibility will be key to the success.
This will make digital payments easy even for those who cannot read or write, thus realizing PERSON's vision of social and financial empowerment for all, said PERSON.
Though GPE did not make any comments to media, Prasad said the meeting was productive.
Timed with the 126th birth anniversary of GPE icon Dr PERSON, PERSON said the App would be part of his dream for a clean economy.
UIDAI Chairman PERSON said the government is using state-of-the-art technology to ensure GPE provides the best service for the people.
UIDAI to refresh data collection process in second GPE, Feb 7,2012,IANS: 19:33 ISTThe Unique Identification Authority of GPE (UIDAI) will be refreshing its data collection process by including the best finger detection and multiple-try method in the second phase of enrolment in April, the agency's chairman PERSON said Tuesday.
Unique identification authority chief PERSON asked the state authorities to play a model role in introduction of Aadhar numbers that will help in implementation of social schemes.
Watch video: The Big Picture Of Arun Jaitleys Budget 2016We will undertake significant reforms, such as the enactment of a law to ensure that all government benefits are conferred upon persons who deserve it, by giving a statutory backing to the Aadhar platform, he said in speech for Union Budget 2016-17.
We are going to make payment through Aadhar-linked (bank) accounts in 46 districts, rural development minister PERSON said.
We are quite hopeful that we will have a resolution of these issues in that meeting, GPE told reporters here after the meeting.
We are simply providing a data bank of identity and residence proof and as Munda government has expressed interest in linking it with PDS, MGNREGA payment, payment of scholarship to students and old age pension through GPE numbers, other states and the Centre need to expedite the process of linking different service delivery mechanisms with the GPE number, he said.
We are working with four vendors who will embed iris cameras in their phones, expected to hit the market in the next six months.
We can build platforms for things like identity and payments and develop an app economy around them, Nilekani said.
We envision electronic payments as the first step on the ladder of financial inclusion, Nilekani and Shah have said.
We have been able to achieve this speed and scale due to our multiple registrar model, as well as scalable technical architecture, UIDAI Chairman PERSON said.
We have been moving with great caution so we dont make mistakes, Chidambaram said, calling the scheme a game-changer in governance.
We have launched our website in five languages for communicating to a larger audience across the country on issues related to GPE.
We plan to increase the language versions in the future, so that residents who have access to the internet are able to view important information in a language that they are comfortable with, said PERSON, chairman UIDAI while launching the multilingual website from UIDAI Tech Centre, Bengaluru.
We plan to increase the language versions in the future, so that residents who have access to the internet are able to view important information in a language that they are comfortable with, said PERSON, chairman UIDAI while launching the multilingual website from UIDAI Tech Centre, Bengaluru.
We reviewed different issues, GPE said, adding that the Home Ministry's National Population Register (NPR) project for constructing digital database of residents could continue along with UIDAI.
what would have taken another 3-6 years to get rolled out, I now believe because of the urgency of the matter, will happen in 3-6 months, Nilekani told NDTV.
which is great for cashless economy, the PM said today in Nagpur, even as he mimicked millennial users often portrayed with their heads downward flicking their fingers over their smartphones.
Within the next two years, we want to cover the whole country, Ramesh said.
You can then get an Apple Pay-like experience on every phone, said PERSON, who was delivering the keynote address at an annual event in IIM-Bangalore.
You cannot stake a claim to the benefits and at the same time be unwilling to shed privacy concerns, he said.
Finance Minister PERSON said here on Saturday that the State government would soon develop software to be supplied free to trade and industry for GST migration.
While the lists are yet to be rolled out by the GST Council, all essential commodities and services, including education and health care should feature in the list of special concessional rate of 5% (if not zero rated)," said BMR indirect tax leader PERSON.
There will be a slight impact on services but the effective cost of goods would come down, said PERSON, indirect tax practice, consulting firm BMR.
The delay in passage of the GST bill will hamper the aspirations of people of GPE and in particular the dreams of the youth, who are thirsty for jobs, Naidu said at a press conference here.
Citing a study by international rating agency Moodys, Naidu said that Indias growth story is running the risk of being jeopardised on account of slow progress on major legilsative reforms like GST and claimed that the legislation, if passed could add  1.5 per cent to 2 per cent to the GDP growth of the country.
Among the BSE sectors, metal jumped  1.89 per cent, followed by banking ( 0.96 per cent), capital goods ( 0.74 per cent) and FMCG ( 0.72 per cent).
The current buoyancy in the market is led by positive cues such as GST, state elections and FII inflows," Vinod Nair, head of research, Geojit Financial Services, said.
About GST implementation, Shailesh Patwari, president of the GCCI, said, "The government has been addressing all our queries ever since GST was implemented.
This will help textile industry players settle their businesses in the new tax structure," said Shailesh Patwari, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industries.
With services being the prevalent sector in GPE, the fainter rise in manufacturing was more than offset and growth of private sector output climbed to an eight-month peak, Ms. PERSON said.
September data painted an encouraging picture as the sector continued to recover from the disruptions caused by the introduction of the GST in July, said PERSON, Economist at IHS Markit and author of the report.
The GST council has flexibility to do so and will do so I am sure," Shah said at an PERSON event.
Expectations of a positive outcome from the GST Council did insulate us from the adverse effect of global volatility," said Vinod Nair, Head of Research, Geojit BNP Paribas Financial Services.
I am ecstatic that there would be no levy of GST on services rendered by Government, Reserve Bank of India, public conveniences, educational institution, services relating to agriculture, transmission or distribution of electricity, renting of residential dwelling for use as a residence, burial, healthcare, specified schemes of general insurance etc, Mohan said.
Not only the gurdwaras but all shrines of other communities should also be given exemption from GST on the offerings for langar," Badungar said who was in GPE to attend a religious event at a local gurudwara.
The statement that revenue neutral rate is expected to be significantly diluted allays fears of the industry and is welcome," BMR & Associates Leader (Indirect Tax) PERSON said.
I believe electronic way bills would be the final nail in the coffin for people dealing in black markets or in the unorganised sector," Mohan said.
On the introduction of goods and services tax (GST), Captain PERSON said almost all states had agreed on the issue after the Union government had assured them that no state would have to bear any loss as result of the GST implementation.
However, it will not reduce the credit available to the dealer in the importing state, captain Abhimanyu said after making his suggestions during a meeting of the empowered committee of states' finance ministers in GPE.
In case the GST is not extended to the state, the businesses will be crippled as no trader from GPE and Kashmir will be able to do business with their counterparts from other parts of the country," Drabu said, adding the consumer in J-K will be the worst hit due to double taxation.
Thanks to all this, people are being spared tax hikes, and commodities in the state will not be dearer at least for four months before we know the new tax rates under GST, said B T Manohar, chairman of taxation committee of Federation of Chambers of Commerce (PERSON).
Drabu said according to his estimates, the state will witness an increase of GPE 1500 crore to GPE 1600 crore in tax collections in addition to the devolution from the Centre.
Drabu said while there were no exemptions under the GST, the businesses in GPE and Kashmir and northeast will continue to enjoy these benefits in the shape of reimbursements.
Chief minister PERSON said the decision was historic as the farmers who could not benefit from the loan waiver given by the previous government in 2008-09 have been incorporated in the waiver announced by the present government.
Chief Minister PERSON told GPE that drought like situation would be announced for 8,000 to 14,000 villages in the state by mid-September, on the basis of the average rainfall.
Maharashtra chief minister PERSON on Thursday said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) was prepared for mid-term polls in the state, remarks that come as both friends and foes have sought to corner his government on the issue of farm-loan waiver.
Following this, PERSON has asked the finance secretary of the state to study the UP model on the basis of which loan waiver was declared.
On farm loans, GPE PERSON said the Centre was positive about institutionalising the credit system and the state will bear its share.
Chief minister PERSON, too, while addressing a function of government employees last Thursday said the reduced rate of suicides was the result of efficiency shown by government staff.
Sena chief PERSON told his legislators to continue to press for the demand, and not let the house function till such a time that the state government, of which it is a component, gives in to it and announces a loan waiver.
If we all work together, Maharashtra will be the number one state in the country, Sena chief PERSON said at the inauguration of the Shiv Aarogya Seva, a telemedicine project, launched at GPE on Monday.
We have agreed to set up a committee to allot agricultural land to tribals provided they submit proof of pre-2005 land cultivation, chief minister PERSON said.
Unless we do that, farmers will not gain much needed confidence, said PERSON of PERSON (VJAS), who was recently roped in by the State government to head a mission to reduce farm distress.
Tiwari said in the letter that Maharashtra had started working on core issues raised in NCF report related to the areas of land, water, bio-resources, credit and insurance, technology and knowledge management, and markets aggressively.
I have appealed to the Centre to immediately suspend imports, said Tiwari.
Recently NCP Chief PERSON asked the government why it was waiving of thousands of crores for Vodafone, but not helping sugar factories in distress.
Union agriculture minister PERSON on Saturday said he would not oppose the creation of PERSON out of Maharashtra if a majority of the people in the state wanted it.
Raje said in this scheme, after waiving off interest and penalty on overdue loan till September 30, 2017, of small and marginal farmers, loan up to GPE have been waived off from the remaining loan.
Raje said earlier farmers used to get insurance of GPE 50,000 on death or permanent disability under Raj Sahakar Personal Insurance Scheme, which now has been increased to GPE 10 lakh.
Raje said that the state government in its budget has waived off a loan of up to Rs 2 lakh and its interest that was due in 1980 and 81 of Rajasthan Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Finance and Development Corporation Limited.
Raje said that the government has given Rs 170 crore for renovation of Mahi canals and work has been started.
BJP government has started such health schemes in the state for its people, Raje said.
Raje said in just over four years, her government spent Rs 6,500 crore to carry out development works in PERSON area and another Rs 1100 crore in GPE.
Raje had said, In the history of GPE, this is the first government that has waived off crop loans up to GPE; the last two governments at the Centre had waived off farm loans up to GPE 10,000 only.
When asked about the BJPs stand on GPE and the farmers protests against his party on the issue, Mr. PERSON said: If the BJP assumes power after the Assembly polls, the new government will find a workable solution.
Prime minister PERSON says that 70 per cent farmers are not required, and should be moved out of agriculture.
In a statement issued here, Akali MPs PERSON and Balwinder Singh Bhunder from PERSON and Prem Singh Chandumajra from PERSON said GPE, GPE and few other factions of the Bharti Kisan Union (BKU) were trying to sow seeds of discontent in the peasantry.
PERSON said the party would intensify the protest across the state and on March 6, the party would gherao the state government in GPE.
PERSON copying our movesOn being asked whether PERSON PERSON has stolen the march over AAP by planning to file a petition in the Supreme Court regarding farmer suicide in the region, PERSON said certain political parties were merely following their steps in order to address the suicide issue.
This is my assurance to you (farmers), PERSON said.
In open defiance of the Central Government directive that states should not fix their own Minimum Support Price (MSP) for farm produce, Siddaramaiah said that the state government will offer an enhanced amount as MSP for all crops.
Siddaramaiah also said he would revoke the ban on cow slaughter that had been imposed by the previous BJP government.
Assam has performed better than many states in the country in ushering in cashless transactions at tea gardens and other interior places of the state, PERSON said.
Most important, no tea garden worker should be left without a bank account, PERSON told representatives of bank officials and tea associations in GPE.
Expressing satisfaction that lakhs of tea workers did not have to suffer due to the demonetisation, PERSON said that each bank must take steps for opening of bank accounts of the tea garden workers who were still left out as per list prepared in-coordination with the tea garden management and start disbursal through such accounts.
Two lakh ATM machines could not have been deliberated in advance to be in tune with new notes as the cash would have been out of the banks, GPE said, adding that secrecy is the key to such actions.
GPE said there were approximately one lakh branches of various banks and two lakh ATMs besides the post offices across the country to dispense cash to common people and the restriction on withdrawal is there to ensure that the money be paid to maximum number of people.
Attorney General PERSON, appearing for the Centre, said that the government is aware of the situation in co-operative banks which lack proper infrastructure and mechanism as compared to scheduled banks.
GPE said, Several cases are filed each passing day in various high courts on various aspects post demonetisation and it is not possible to deal with cases simultaneously in GPE, GPE, GPE and GPE.
Attorney General PERSON said that the Centre had filed a reply in the Supreme Court in compliance with the top court's earlier order on the issue.
Attorney General PERSON said that the Centre had filed a reply in the Supreme Court in compliance with the top court's earlier order on the issue.
GPE told the apex court that general rule is that the cash transactions in the market should not be more than four per cent of the GDP but it is 12 per cent in GPE.
GPE told the bench that various petitions have been filed challenging the demonetisation move before different high courts across the country and these matters should be transferred to the apex court or one of the high courts.
Attorney General PERSON said that the Centre had filed a reply in the Supreme Court in compliance with the top court's earlier order on the issue.
Government is constantly monitoring the situation, Das said.
Will be more visible in coming days, economic affairs secretary PERSON said on micro-blogging site Twitter.
In a few months, GPE notes with new features will be brought into the market, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said while addressing the Economic Editor's Conference in GPE on Thursday.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said it was too early to assess the impact of demonetisation.
Being a statistical organisation, CSO has to go on real statistics and we cannot expect them to go on the basis of impressions and anecdotal evidence, economic affairs secretary PERSON told reporters on Friday.
Das said the government would look into a spurt in PERSON accounts and urged that such account holders should not let their accounts be misused.
Das said the government is closely monitoring the supply of essential commodities and a coordination group headed by the cabinet secretary is monitoring the implementation of all the steps.
To enable larger number of people to get benefit of over-the-counter exchange of Rs 500 and GPE notes, the existing limit of Rs 4,500 will be reduced to Rs 2,000 with effect from tomorrow, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters.
Addressing the media in GPE about Prime Minister's meeting on Sunday to review, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said Monday that the ATM re-calibration has started and some of the ATMs will start dispensing higher denominations, including 2000 rupee notes, from today or tomorrow.
8:45pm: Assam chief minister PERSON says GST will bring a paradigm shift in the entire indirect tax system.
PERSON,ChennaiOnly a partial stepPrime Minister PERSON claim (Demonetisation flushed out black money, says PERSON, Feb.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be reviewed after December 30.
Defending the PERSON decision, Prime Minister PERSON on Friday said the demonetisation move had empowered the common man in the fight against black money, while taking a swing at the opposition and critics saying they were flustered as they were caught off guard.
Modi had said opposition parties were attacking him as they did not get time to prepare in advance.
Speaking after releasing two books on Constitution in GPE, Prime Minister PERSON said those who are criticizing the demonetisation move dont have problem with the governments preparedness, but they are having problems because they didnt get time to prepare for turning their black money into white.
During an emotional address to the people in GPE, Prime Minister PERSON yesterday said that he left his family and home to serve the nation, adding he understands the pain of the people who have been waiting in long queues to exchange their currencies.
Chief Minister PERSON has asked district collectors to set up camps to educate the public about the benefits of cashless economy and train them in using this mode of transaction.
Chief Minister PERSON on Sunday asked bankers to help realise Prime Minister PERSON appeal for a cashless economy.
Let us accept the challenge, plan accordingly and make a cashless economy possible, Mr. PERSON said while addressing an urgently-convened meeting of the State Level Bankers Committee (SLBC) in GPE.
These must be challenging times for the Congress wont to using black money during elections, Punjab Deputy Chief Minister PERSON told ET Magazine.
We believe that the PERSON stand to lose thousands of crores and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) hundreds of crores due to the drive, Captain PERSON, Punjab Congress chief, told ET Magazine.
During an emotional address to the people in GPE, Prime Minister PERSON said he left his family and home to serve the nation and added that he understands the pain of the people who have been waiting in long queues to exchange their currencies.
Speaking after releasing two books on Constitution in GPE, Prime Minister PERSON said those who are criticizing the demonetisation move don't have problem with the government's preparedness, but they are having problems because they didn't get time to prepare for turning their black money into white.
| PERSON DELHI: GPE becoming an identity proof for every Indian is now a distinct possibility, Finance Secretary PERSON said on Wednesday.
Speaking at a seminar organised by GPE, GPE said GPE has brought efficiency in public spending and removed corruption.
Lavasa said the unique identity proof has a huge potential for changing many of the procedures for conducting business.
Finance Secretary PERSON on December 16 had said that the withdrawal limit was to be reviewed after December 30, 2016.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be will be reviewed after December 30.
Accusing the UPA dispensation of policy paralysis and concentration of arbitrary power which resulted in scams and corruption, Mr. PERSON said the UPA spent its entire time on white-washing and had no courage to make any important decisions.
The government has also constituted a special taskforce to keep a watch on the infusion of fake currency in vulnerable areas, Mr. PERSON said, adding that a technology team has also been formed to popularise the use of e-wallets and also to ensure that ATM recalibration progresses apace.
There have been no major hiccups in the first week of Goods and Services Tax (GST) rollout and things will normalise over the next three months, former Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said.
Businesses will realise the benefits of input tax credit and GST in coming months, Mr. PERSON said during an interaction with PERSON, consultant, The Hindu Business Line , organised by the Chennai International Centre.
Mr. PERSON, who played a key role in the governments demonetisation move, said the measure had achieved its objective.
Mr. PERSON also said the main objective of the demonetisation exercise of countering fake currencies and curbing black money had been achieved.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told presspersons that the GPE. 21,000 crore would enable these banks to sanction and disburse crop loans to farmers through the network of primary agricultural cooperative societies.
On seizures of unaccounted-for cash, Mr. PERSON said the Revenue Department would soon make a statement on the exact quantum.
Pointing out that 30 crore GPE debit cards had been issued with a 300 per cent growth in their use in the past 12 days, Mr. PERSON said the banks had decided to waive transaction charges on using them up to December 31.
On other measures to boost digital transactions, Mr. PERSON said the telecom regulator TRAI has decided to reduce the USSD (Unstructured Supplementary Service Data) charges from the current GPE.  1.50 per session to 50 paise per session for transactions relating to banking and payments.
Therefore, the Road Transport and Highways Ministry had advised automobile manufacturers to provide Electronics Product Code Global Incorporated-compliant Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) facility in all new vehicles, Mr. PERSON said.
The Reserve Bank of India board had taken the decision long back to introduce GPE. 2,000 notes, said Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON.
Mr. PERSON said the bold and decisive step to fight black money and the use of fake currency notes to finance terrorism was backed by analysis of Indias currency trends.
Families can withdraw up to GPE. 2, 50,000 for weddings and the existing limit of GPE. 4,500 for exchange of old GPE. 500 and GPE. 1,000 notes will be reduced to GPE. 2,000 from Friday, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said on Thursday.
To enable larger number of people to get benefit of over-the-counter exchange of Rs 500 and GPE notes, the existing limit of Rs 4,500 will be reduced to Rs 2,000 with effect from tomorrow, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters.
This has been considered by the government and decided that for wedding ceremonies, up to GPE  2.5 lakh will be allowed to be withdrawn from account if father or mother or the bride and groom, Mr. PERSON said.
The withdrawal limit from ATMs has been increased to GPE. 2,500 but this will apply only to the recalibrated ATMs, Mr. PERSON said.
The Prime Ministers focus is not the strengthening and expansion of the banking system, Mr. PERSON said.
The Finance Ministry has urged people to withdraw only as much cash as they need from ATMs, and the Ministry is looking into complaints about ATMs running dry, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said here on Wednesday.
However, last November, at the Economics Editors Conference, Mr. PERSON had said that the government was planning to issue a Rs. 1,000 note with new dimensions, new design and new colour.
Focus is on production and supply of GPE. 500 and lower denomination notes, Mr. PERSON said in another tweet.
In a few months, GPE notes with new features will be brought into the market, said Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON while addressing the Economic Editor's Conference here today.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said that the demonetisation is due to sharp increase in circulation of these notes in the last five years.
The Rs 1,000 currency notes will make a comeback in a few months, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters here.
Explaining the reason for holding back the release of GPE currency notes, Das said maintaining secrecy about the entire exercise was topmost priority, prompting the government to rope in only two to three people for designing the new notes.
To make this whole process faster, a task force was decided to be set up under the chairmanship of the RBI deputy governor, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters here on Monday.
Each joint secretary has been assigned three or four states to make action plans, PERSON said.
The RBI has already pumped in GPE 5 lakh crore worth 500 and 2,000 rupee notes and by month end about 50 per cent of the GPE 15 lakh crore worth demonetised currency would be injected into the system, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters here.
Das said the RBI has a particular plan of action with regard to currency supply.
Further action is being taken by the tax department and it is not an aimless fishing expedition, Das said.
With regard to the impact of demonetisation on rabi sowing, Das said the total sowing area so far is almost at par with last year and whatever shortfall has happened will be made good in the coming weeks.
The emphasis now is to provide cash to rural areas from where reports of inadequate availability of cash are coming in, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters.
Das said the currency notes continued to be airlifted to non-metro cities and rural areas.
Commenting on the data, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said this year growth figures are on a high base of last fiscal and numbers do not show much negative impact of demonetisation.
Those indulging in or colluding with money laundering or converting black money into white will not be spared, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said in a tweet.
GPE, Feb 3, 2017 (PTI) 14:36 ISTThe exercise of remonetisation that began after scrapping of the old Rs 500 and 1,000 notes on November 8 is nearly complete as practically there are no restrictions on withdrawals, said Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON.
Das said the remonetisation process has reached near completion in less than 90 days of announcement of the demonetisation by the Prime Minister on November 8.
On augmenting delivery channels, Das said cash availability with the District Central Cooperative Banks (DCCBs) and  1.3 lakh post offices has been enhanced which should be able to meet the requirements of rural population.
Asking people not to fall prey to rumours like shortage of salt and bankers going on strike, Das said the government will ensure adequate availability of cash as well as essential commodities.
The Cabinet Secretary is heading a group of secretaries and other senior official to monitor movement and supply of essential commodities across the country, Das said.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said SPMCIL fulfils a sovereign function by printing currency notes, minting coins and printing non judicial papers and stamps.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said the third quarter and the  7.1 per cent growth projected for full fiscal are definitely something noteworthy.
Going forward we should see improvements in the sector, Das said.
Giving details of the high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister PERSON late last night, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said it was decided to activate all channels for dispensing cash.
For the urban population, Das said recalibration of ATMs has already started and they will start dispensing the new Rs 2,000 currency notes from today or tomorrow.
To help small traders meet their business requirements, Das said the government has decided to increase the cash withdrawal limit to GPE per week for small businesses.
In order to make transaction through cards cheaper, Das said RBI has asked National Payments Corporation of India to waive its various transaction charges.
Das said the focus of the government is to activate all channels of distribution to ensure that cash is dispensed to the public.
Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said the families preparing for a wedding can withdraw up to GPE  2.50 lakh from bank account giving PAN details and self declaration.
Das said PAN details would have to be mentioned for such withdrawals and a self declaration also will be obtained that the money has been drawn only from one account.
So, as far as toll plazas are concerned, the Ministry of Road, Transport and PERSON is advising vehicle manufacturers that in all new vehicles, the manufacturers must provide Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) facility, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters here.
This will improve the functioning of toll plaza, digital payments, Das said.
Das further said all government offices have been asked to use only digital payment methods for making payments to stakeholders, contractors and employees.
To enable larger number of people to get benefit of over-the-counter exchange of Rs 500 and GPE notes, the existing limit of Rs 4,500 will be reduced to Rs 2,000 with effect from tomorrow, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON told reporters.
Earlier in the day, Economic Affairs Secretary PERSON said the lowering of the currency exchange limit was intended to enable a larger number of people to reach bank counters.
Das said, Up to GPE  2.50 lakh will be permitted to be drawn.
On Tuesday, GPE told the apex court that Sections 7 and 54 of the Aadhaar Act made it mandatory for people to get enrolled.
GPE said linking PAN with GPE was needed to curb the practice of tax evasion and to keep tabs on the circulation of black money as PAN was not a foolproof deterrent.
Lavasa said people need money for transaction so for replacement that currency is being introduced.
In an interview to PTI, Finance Secretary PERSON said over  1.7 lakh PoS machines have already been installed at public distribution system (PDS) shops and more will be done in next few months.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be reviewed after December 30.
Separately, at a PERSON event, Finance Secretary PERSON, when he was asked about deposits of political parties, said, PERSON tak 30 December tak purane note koi bhi jama kara sakta hai toh isme kisi ke khilaaf aisa koi vyavdhaan nahi hai ki falaana aadmi nahi kara sakta aur falaana kara sakta hai (Until December 30, anyone can deposit old notes.
Finance Secretary PERSON had said the withdrawal cap would be will be reviewed after December 30.
Speaking at an PERSON event, GPE said GPE can become the single identity proof for an array of services.
It was a process set in motion by the party president after he assumed office, said GPE.
Meghwal said that after the demonetisation move, the digital transactions at petrol pumps have shown a remarkable increase.
It is people's mandate for the Prime Minister's decision of demonetisation, PERSON told reporters.
Prime Minister PERSON , in his speech on the evening of November 8, had said that those who are unable to deposit their notes by December 30 can deposit the notes in specified offices of RBI up to March 31, 2017 after submitting a declaration form.
