Discussion in Parliament in support of GST || 0.4767;;june 1 is the cut-off for considering reforms for this listing and our gst was implemented from july 1, so there is considerable room for further improved position next time, arunjaitley said.
Discussion in Parliament in support of GST || 0.7717;;political obstructionism is being used to ensure it does not come on the agenda of parliament, arunjaitley said at the annual general meeting of industry chamber ficci adding that the select committee of the rajya sabha had approved raising the fdi cap in the insurance sector to 49  from the current 26 the fm said there were enough safeguards, and the constitutional system can deal with and effectively defeat this policy of political obstructions.
Discussion in Parliament in support of GST || -0.6124;;referring to the gst reform bill introduced in parliament on friday, arunjaitley said an overwhelming majority of states were backing the reform as their fears about revenue loss in the initial years after the gst roll-out would be set at rest through a compensatory mechanism in the transition period.
Discussion in Parliament in support of GST || 0.2732;;the fm said the new government had inherited a huge number of unpaid bills of the previous governmentthe subsidy bill and the central sales tax compensation, but hoped to meet the challenge of meeting the fiscal deficit target of 4.
|| 0.5664;;new delhi: political resistance of some parties will not delay the goods and service tax as a constitutional embargo means the tax reform will have to roll out by september next year, finance minister arunjaitley said on saturday.
|| 0.6174;;i am conscious of (the) fact that the current political attitude of some political parties is to delay implementation of gst but the constitutional mandate is very clear, arunjaitley said, adding the old taxation regime can continue for just one year from september 16, the date of notification.
|| -0.4019;;the constitution mandates the gst has to come in place before september 16, 2017 and states who do not do it will lose the right to collect taxes, said the fm.
Fears of Capital Crunch among traders before GST Rollout || Nonconclusive discussion b/w center & state regarding GST || 0.1027;;giving reasons for lowering the tax rates, finance minister arunjaitley had said the objective was to maintain equivalence to the existing taxation level.
|| -0.7184;;new delhi, jun 26 () following are the top businessnew delhi, jun 26 () following are the top business stories at 2000 hrs today:del15 biz-gst-jaitley-jknew delhi: finance minister arunjaitley today asked jammu and kashmir to roll out gst from july 1 as failure to implement it will lead to adverse impact of price rise and put local industry at a disadvantage.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.5994;;this (demonetisation), coupled with gst, in the days to come will ensure much larger revenues as far as states and the central government are concerned and expand the size as far as the formal economy is concerned, arunjaitley said at the cii partnership summit here.
|| -0.0516;;if the impact of demonetisation was that huge on informal sector, there would have been social unrest, arunjaitley said, adding any adverse impact of the two back-to-back reforms  gst and demonetisation were almost behind us.
|| -0.4019;;jaitley said states would be compensated every two months instead of every quarter for the losses they might incur during gst implementation.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.4019;;file photofinance minister arunjaitley on wednesday said the goods and services tax (gst), which is likely to be rolled out from july 1, will help curb tax evasion and reduce prices of various commodities by reducing tax on tax.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.5994;;gst will be a game changer and will help in curbing tax evasion, bringing transparency and efficiency in tax administration, reducing the prices of various items by avoiding tax on tax and ensuring seamless transfer of goods from one region to another, among others, arunjaitley said, addressing the 23rd conference of auditors general of commonwealth countries and british overseas territories in delhi.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.0;;jaitley said that gst will simplify the most complicated indirect tax system in the country by subsuming various central and state indirect taxes and introducing the concept of one nation, one tax.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.5719;;addressing a town hall meeting at s k memorial hall here, adhia said the gdp of the country would rise by 2  with implementation of gst, which would in turn lead to creation of lakhs of new job opportunities in the country.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.3612;;though there is a rise of 3  in the overall tax slab, the developers would also get several tax credits under gst, which would make the properties cheaper, adhia said.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || -0.2023;;adhia said 23 types of cess of the central government and several other kinds of cess charged by the state government would abolish following implementation of gst.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || -0.296;;adhia said there would be no need of integrated check posts on state borders following implementation of gst.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || -0.4215;;it has been estimated that trucks waste around 35  of their total travel time at the check posts, said adhia.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.0;;speaking on the issue of migration of individuals from vat to gst, adhia said digital verification would not be required for them (as needed for companies), when the next phase of migration starts from june 25.
Training Programmes for Creating GST Awareness || 0.0;;adhia said whenever tax on inputs would be more than tax on finished products and services, the additional tax would be refunded to manufacturers or service providers, except textile fabric.
Fears of Capital Crunch among traders before GST Rollout || -0.4404;;compliance burden of medium and small taxpayers in gst has been reduced, finance minister arunjaitley told reporters after the 22nd meeting of the council.
Fears of Capital Crunch among traders before GST Rollout || -0.2732;;jaitley said the council also decided to cut gst rates on 27 common use items.
Fears of Capital Crunch among traders before GST Rollout || -0.1027;;jaitley said big taxpayers, who make 94-95 per cent of the total taxes, will continue to file monthly returns and pay taxes on a monthly basis.
|| 0.0;;new delhi: finance minister arunjaitley today said the goods and services tax (gst) collections in the first two months have met the target and going forward the revenue will see a further surge.
|| 0.7269;;gst and demonetisation together will lead to higher revenues in future, greater compliance and give us a cleaner and better economy, arunjaitley said.
|| 0.7351;;in a letter to the chief ministers of all the states wednesday, text of which was released to the media here sep 11, j.jayalalithaa said: i do hope you will agree with my views that, before enactment of the constitutional amendment bill on gst is taken up, the government of india should strive for a broad consensus on the important issues relating to gst without compromising the fiscal autonomy of the states.
|| 0.0;;referring to the revised draft constitutional amendment bill on gst circulated by the central government, j.jayalalithaa said there are number of serious concerns on the impact of proposed gst whould have on the fiscal autonomy of the states.
|| -0.3818;;the proposal of the government of india to bring petroleum products under the ambit of the goods and services tax is another area of concern which would seriously diminish the limited revenue resources of the states, j.jayalalithaa said.
|| -0.5574;;twitter.com/vvjmucevlq  ani (@ani) august 15, 20178:24 am: demonetisation has helped bring black money into formal economy: pm8:23 am: modi says after note ban, three lakh shell companies were detected; 1.

