;;0.8126;;on farm loans, cm devendrafadnavis said the centre was positive about institutionalising the credit system and the state will bear its share.
;;0.0;;fadnavis said the state has been facing drought for four consecutive years.
;;-0.8196;;after shiv sena relaunched its attack on the state government over loan waivers, chief minister devendrafadnavis said the demand to completely waive farm loans could not be granted immediately as it will collapse the fiscal discipline.
;;-0.4588;;the cm said the cost of extending the loan waiver to 31 lakh farmers is rs 30,500 crore and if the government decided to bear it, that would mean depriving other sections of society from their social schemes.
;;0.6124;;the cm also said rather than giving loan waivers, the state will focus on sustainable growth of agriculture.
;;-0.357;;chief minister devendrafadnavis said the decision was historic as the farmers who could not benefit from the loan waiver given by the previous government in 2008-09 have been incorporated in the waiver announced by the present government.
;;0.0772;;the cm later, in the lower house, asked them to participate in the proceedings and said the state was ready to discuss the issues.
;;0.1695;;fadnavis said farmer suicides could not be stopped with loan waivers.
;;-0.6542;;chief minister devendrafadnavis on wednesday announced a special package of rs10,512 crore for drought-hit farmers in maharashtra, but rejected the oppositions demand to announce a loan waiver.
;;0.836;;fadnavis also said increasing investment in agriculture, making farmers capable and ensuring that a majority of farmers opt for crop insurance would be the best way to tackle situations such as drought.
;;-0.7369;;unabated crisis over the decades* farmers suicides from 1995 to 2011: 53,818* farmers suicides from 2009 to 2014: 3,000 annually on an average (according to the national crime records bureau)* according to the state statistics, the figure from 2001 to 2014 is much less, at 17,645 deaths, or an average of 1,260 farmers annually# why the change in approach* while so far, successive governments in the state have focussed on large-scale schemes for entire regions and announcing of compensation packages after natural disasters, the new policy is trying to zero in on specific families* the decision for the change was taken after 11 bureaucrats went to visit villages in yavatmal in vidarbha and osmanabad in marathwada, two of the worst-affected rural regions in the state* the officials met families of farmers who had committed suicides, and also spoke to local administration officials to gauge the reasons behind the deaths* the state is looking at including farm labourers and marginal farmers in its net* these groups normally fall off the compensation net as they dont own land or may not have papers to show their debts* chief minister devendrafadnavis had earlier asked the state administration to prepare a policy to tackle farmers suicides, which led to this exercise.
;;0.0;;fadnavis has said an alternative to the lbt and toll tax was being worked out and would be announced soonconcerns over environment: the ministry of environment and forest has proposed to shrink the buffer zone around sanctuaries and national parks.
;;0.7237;;the banks have not bothered to inform farmers about the amount credited to their accounts as part of the waiver benefits, fadnavis said during the meeting of the state level bankers committee (slbc), which represents all types of banks, at sahyadri guesthouse in mumbai.
;;-0.0772;;the situation in maharashtra is grave and we need help to deal with the rising number of farmer suicide cases in the drought-prone areas of maharashtra, especially yavatmal and osmanabad, fadnavis told peres, citing the successful agriculture projects that have been undertaken in israel.
;;0.1779;;coming under pressure from opposition and ally shiv sena, chief minister fadnavis said his government is in favour of loan waiver and was studying the up model.
;;0.0;;shiv sena chief, uddhav thackeray, also said that the state government should follow in the footsteps of the up government and waive off the farmer loans.
;;0.0;;following this, devendrafadnavis has asked the finance secretary of the state to study the up model on the basis of which loan waiver was declared.
;;0.0;;fadnavis said the bjp-shiv sena government was doing everything that is possible to help farmers, who have faced crop losses due to unseasonal rains and hailstorms, and bring them out of the prevailing situation.
;;-0.0369;;fadnavis also said his government was positive about the loan waiver to farmers but did not promise an upa lokayukta for nagpur civic body.
;;0.5499;;we will waive off loans of farmers but at an appropriate time and will also take centres help for the same, fadnavis told reporters after the cabinet meeting.
;;0.0;;but prime minister modi told a rally of farmers at sehore, about 40km west of capital bhopal, his governments farmer-friendly insurance is criticism-proof.
;;0.0;;farmers in karnataka have hugely benefited from the scheme, says pm.
;;0.0;;48pm: the government will set up gramin haats so that farmers dont have to go faraway to sell their produces, says modi.
;;0.7845;;lets resolve that by 2022 we will no longer have to import pulses i have been telling our universities our agricultural universities should take up each variety of pulses how to do research in it, how to do genetic engineering in it, how to increase productivity, how to increase protein content so that farmers get good prices, modi said.
;;0.7269;;making a strong outreach to the crisis-ridden farming community, modi said the kisan channel is aimed at helping drive farm income by supplying key information, such as weather, market and demand.
;;-0.4215;;the congress vice president said he will force the bjp-led nda government at the centre for a loan waiver for the distressed farmers.
;;-0.0572;;we dont want an india where only a handful get everything, fly in aeroplanes and travel in big cars and our farmers are turned into labourers, rahul said.
;;0.3612;;later in the day, ending his road show in the old city, rahul told a gathering that economists have told him that the schemes like mgnrega and loan waiver had helped the overall economy of the country and not just the farmers.
;;-0.4767;;rahul, during an interactive session with farmers in gannaur in haryana, said farmers in kutch were crying when they met him.
;;0.4019;;us sey unka bhi fayeda hoga (it is a political advice for arun jaitley for his own good), rahul said adding that such a budget would help farmers knows how much government has set aside for flood, drought, or to assist him with grains, vegetables.
;;-0.4215;;(source: ani photo) rahulgandhi said he would force the bjp-led nda government at the centre for a loan waiver for the distressed farmers.
;;-0.4215;;the congress vice president said he would force the bjp-led nda government at the centre for a loan waiver for the distressed farmers.
;;0.2732;;we will create a food chain from where the produce will go the cities and farmers will directly receive the money due to them, rahulgandhi says.
;;-0.296;;the families of the farmers (who were killed in mandsaur last year) will get justice in 10 days and we will take action against those responsible for the firing, says the congress president.
;;-0.4767;;punjab cm captain amarinder (file photo) punjab cm captain amarinder (file photo)the state level bankers committee of punjab friday said the delay in rolling out the farm debt waiver to farmers having accounts in commercial banks was affecting recoveries of commercial banks and had also turned nearly 80 per cent farmers into non-performing assets (npas).
;;-0.4019;;it is a tragedy that the same farmers who at one time provided food to the nation are now dying of starvation as they cannot make both ends meet, amarinder said, promising that their debts will be taken over by government.
;;0.0547;;the deputy cm said the issue of farm loans had been tackled holistically by coming out with the settlement of indebtedness bill besides ensuring that farmers were not charged excessive interest.
;;0.34;;punjab chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals on monday asked the union government to constitute a high-level committee of agriculture experts to revive the agrarian economy in the state.
;;-0.1027;;terming the rail roko agitation by farmers as unfortunate, punjab chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals said the state government was ready to accept every genuine demand of the peasantry.
;;-0.0516;;laying stress on setting up more ultra-modern centers of excellence for undertaking research and design (r&d) to promote agriculture diversification in the state, punjab chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals on tuesday said that these were the 'temples of second green revolution' which were required for bailing out the farmers from the current agrarian crisis.
;;-0.0258;;chhapar (ludhiana): amid ongoing protests by farmers over meagre compensation for the cotton crop loss in malwa, punjab chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals announced rs 600-crore relief for the farming community here on monday.
;;-0.4215;;punjab chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals on thursday said anyone found guilty of supplying spurious pesticides to the cotton cultivators in the state would not be spared at any cost.
;;-0.7783;;chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals may have announced that families of suicide victims will be given `3 lakh in compensation `50,000 in cash and the remaining to be deposited in the familys account.
;;-0.7783;;chief minister parkash parkashsinghbadals may have announced that families of suicide victims will be given rs 3 lakh in compensation `50,000 in cash and the remaining to be deposited in the familys account.
;;0.0;;earlier policiesin 2001, before the 2002 elections, the then chief minister prakash parkashsinghbadals announced a compensation of rs 2 lakh, which was never given.
;;0.4215;;mumbai: cm devendrafadnavis told toi on tuesday that two lakh additional farmers would be beneficiaries of the state governments move to take the cutoff date for the farm loan waiver back to 2001.
;;0.1779;;fadnavis also said that of the 36,000 cases related to transfer of forest land to tribals, 20,000 had been resolved.
;;0.0516;;the farmers main demand was rights over forest land, and fadnavis told them the issue would be resolved within six months.
;;0.3167;;mumbai: chief minister devendrafadnavis on sunday announced that the state cabinet would give one more chance to farmers who could not submit their loan waiver application.
;;-0.5719;;clarifying on the assistance to be given to farmers affected from hailstorms and pink bollworm attack, fadnavis said the survey has been completed and actual disbursement is in process.
;;0.4588;;sawant disclosed that while the cm had announced that 89 lakh farmers will benefit under the waiver scheme, after the cumbersome procedure introduced by the information technology department, only 77 lakh were able to submit on-line applications.
;;-0.6249;;fadnavis announced three-pronged strategy to provide compensation to the farmers families through insurance and even approached the centre for national disaster response fund (ndrf).
;;0.128;;admitting that there was a strain on the exchequer due to loan waiver and other expenditure, the cm said even gdp was growing at same time due to massive push to the infrastructural development.
;;-0.1471;;fadnavis announced the rs 34,022 crore loan waiver scheme for 89 lakh farmers, but could not take credit due to the bureaucracys casual approach.
;;0.0;;mumbai: the state has decided to stay recovery of power bills run up by farmers given their current hardships, chief minister devendrafadnavis told the assembly on thursday.
;;0.0;;in the past three years, bill recoveries had been stayed on account of the drought and other crises faced by the farm sector, fadnavis said.
;;-0.1027;;meanwhile, fadnavis also said that the state would pay the power bills due from gram panchayats.
;;0.1531;;chandigarh: punjab will disburse rs 209 crore as debt relief to 38,000 marginal farmers who are members of cooperative societies in the state in 10 days, said chief minister amarinder here on wednesday.
;;-0.128;;various studies undertaken to understand the extent of farm debt in punjab had found that farm labourers were one of the most badly-hit class and should be considered for suitable relief in any loan waiver scheme, amarinder said and criticised opposition parties and some kisan unions for spreading false propaganda on the issues faced by farmers.
;;0.0;;explaining the project further, amarinder said if a farmer was given rs 10,000 for power consumption of his tubewell and he ended up spending rs 7,000, the remaining amount would go into his pocket and he would also contribute to saving the declining groundwater level in the state.
;;0.0;;on claims that names of many farmers have not figured in waiver lists, amarinder said names of only those had not been figured in the lists where some anomalies in names were there and the farmers should approach authorities concerned for corrections and waiver would be provided to the deserving farmers.
;;-0.8883;;amarinder said, when the congress came to power in punjab, we had no idea that the economic condition of punjab was so bad that it was under debt of over rs 2 lakh crore and due to it there was some delay in implementing the loan waiver scheme.
;;-0.4019;;it is not possible to implement all promises in eight months, especially given the financial crisis inherited from the erstwhile sad-bjp government, said the cm, adding that the state was struggling to generate its own resources, including loans to fulfil its promises.
;;-0.2247;;when a minister entrusted with the welfare of the farmers cannot relate to their problems and is absolutely indifferent to their plight, one can well imagine which way the country is headed, amarinder said.
;;0.2023;;questioning the centres intent to rescue the beleaguered farmers, amarinder asked, if a bankrupt state like punjab could do its bit for a loan waiver, why could the centre not come up with a waiver scheme?
;;-0.3612;;amarinder, who was here to launch the farm debt waiver scheme, said that, i had ensured laying of link roads during my previous tenure till 2007.
;;0.3612;;gurdaspur: punjab chief minister captain amarinder has announced to give debt relief certificates worth rs 156.
;;-0.4939;;the cm said that the state government had also decided to give a financial assistance worth rs. 50,000 each to landless labourers to bail them out of the current agrarian crisis.
;;0.0;;amarinder also announced upgradation of cooperative sugar mill at paniar in gurdaspur district for making it economically viable.
;;-0.6705;;nakodar: on the occasion of farmers debt waiver function at nakodar, punjab chief minister amarinder on wednesday announced infrastructure project worth rs 113 crore for shahkot area, which is going to have a byelection after the death of sitting mla ajit singh kohar .
;;0.0;;as many leaders were opposed waving loans borrowed by mlas, mlcs, and representatives of local bodies, mr. h.d.kumaraswamys said even employees of co-operatives earning a salary of rs. 3 lakh a year and some individuals paying income tax of rs. 3 lakh a year have borrowed farm loans.
;;-0.5267;;chief minister h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys said he would cut down on expenditure on other heads to compensate the loss to the state exchequer on account of farm loan waiver.
;;0.6652;;reiterating his commitment to waive farm loans, chief minister h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys on sunday said that he will not hesitate to resign in case he is unable to do so.
;;0.0;;chief minister h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys on monday said he would announce his plan on farm loan waiver on wednesday in bengaluru.
;;0.4019;;farm loan waiveron the rs. 53,000 crore farm loan waiver, which his party had announced in its manifesto, mr. h.d.kumaraswamys said, now, i cannot take individual decision since we are in an alliance.
;;-0.7783;;when farmers are in deep trouble due to agrarian crisis, prime minister narendra modi and chief minister siddaramaiah are busy countering one another over commission percentage governance, h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys , state president of the janata dal(s), has said.
;;0.6652;;reiterating his commitment to waive farm loans, chief minister h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys on sunday said that he will not hesitate to resign in case he is unable to do so.
;;0.4588;;chief minister h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys said the government has extended duration of the scheme for the benefit of the farming community.
;;0.4019;;speaking to reporters at dharmasthala, mr. h.d.kumaraswamys said that though his party did not get the mandate from the voters, he would announce plans for farmers after the swearing-in.
;;0.4019;;loans taken by farmers from nationalised banks will be waived within 24 hours after the janata dal (secular) comes to power, h.d. h.d.kumaraswamys , party state president, has said.
;;-0.9201;;mr. h.d.kumaraswamys , who accused the union and state governments of neglecting farmers under distress owing to crop losses following drought and flood-like situations, said, both governments have failed to tackle farmers problems effectively and were pointing fingers at each other when asked about loan waivers.
;;0.4019;;chief minister devendrafadnavis said, the extension will help farmers to avail loan waiver till may 20.
;0.0;;in april this year, chief minister devendrafadnavis had told the indian express that the government has put in several plans in place to reduce the farmer suicides and the efforts will take time to show results.
;;-0.3818;;chief minister devendrafadnavis said friday, the budget has given greater impetus to tackle the agrarian crisis in wake of recurring drought for the fourth consecutive year.
;;0.0;;fadnavis said, the allocation of rs 25,000 crore for agriculture is a big leap forward.
;;0.4767;;fadnavis said, apart from the budgetary provisions for irrigation projects, rs 1,000 crore for flagship jalyukta shivar abhiyan will help in rolling out several thousand water conservation works in 5,500 villages reeling under drought.
;;0.1779;;to a question on why he has not heeded to oppositions demand for loan waiver to farmers, fadnavis said loan waiver was a good option, but it was not the only one.
;;0.8402;;share this article related article centre, state have allocated rs 51,000 crore for irrigation projects, says devendrafadnavis , state have allocated rs 51,000 crore for irrigation projects, says devendrafadnavis states vision document 2030 lays stress on solar power for farmersstates vision document 2030 lays stress on solar power for farmers maharashtra to revive 5 rivers to ensure perennial water flow: cm fadnavismaharashtra to revive 5 rivers to ensure perennial water flow: cm fadnavis devendrafadnavis prescribes drip irrigation for sugarcane, solar-powered pumpsdevendra fadnavis prescribes drip irrigation for sugarcane, solar-powered pumps maharashtra govt plans to make agriculture sector run on solar energymaharashtra govt plans to make agriculture sector run on solar energy maharashtra will require rs 1 lakh crore for irrigation projects : cm fadnavishe added, the agrarian crisis in a state reeling under drought can be effectively tackled only through making the farmers self reliant with water and power.
;;0.5106;;chief minister devendrafadnavis , who reviewed the drought situation in marathwada last week and sought to infuse confidence in farmers by announcing a slew of measures, told this paper that his government was concerned about the farmer suicides and has taken several steps to bring them down.
;;-0.7717;;when pointed out that government officials were allegedly not put in their might to stop the farmer suicide saga, fadnavis said all efforts are underway and things would soon change in marathwada.
;;0.25;;as per law, only two proofs are required for such land rights to be granted and the cm said this will be followed, said dr ashok dhawle of the all india kisan sabha.
;;0.34;;devendra fadnavis said the government would expose the rampant corruption in the cooperative sector in the larger interest of the farmers.
;;0.34;;fadnavis said the government would expose the rampant corruption in the cooperative sector in the larger interest of the farmers, and reiterated the decision not to go for complete loan waiver and instead make farmers self-reliant.
;;0.0;;fadnavis said the foremost task was to enhance the irrigation potential from 18 per cent to 27 per cent in phases.
;;0.5994;;speaking at a meeting to review preparations for the kharif season, fadnavis said; efforts to bring maximum farmers within the institutional credit mechanism through fresh crop loans should be taken up on a mission mode.
;;0.0;;at the meeting, fadnavis said he has asked agriculture universities in the state to prepare a earn while you learn stipend scheme for students to carry out field work.
;;0.4767;;countering the allegation, fadnavis said his government had allocated over rs 18,000 crore for farm relief, including rs 8,000 crore that were distributed last year, and the remaining that were earmarked in december, while alleging that the previous regime had spent just rs 5000 crore in 15 years.
;;0.4939;;chief minister devendrafadnavis said, farm ponds will be significant for farmers, as creation of permanent assets for holding water would help them reap their fields next seasons even if there is poor rainfall.
;;0.2732;;at a meeting held with top officials of national bank for agriculture and rural development (nabard), and the ministries of agriculture and finance, fadnavis said, crop loan (disbursements) should be raised to cover larger number of farmers with an attempt to lessen their dependence on private money lenders.
;;0.3612;;there cannot be any justification to financial institutions turning down loans to farmers on the pretext of non-recovery or outstanding debt, fadnavis said.
;;0.2732;;returning from his four-day visit to israel, fadnavis told the indian express in mumbai, i have urged the peres centre for peace to help some districts in maharashtra in tackling the agriculture crisis that leads to farmer suicides.
;;0.0;;earlier this month, just when the unrest has started, fadnavis had announced a rs 30,000-crore waiver for 40 lakh-odd small and marginal farmers whose loans were overdue.
;;0.0;;elaborating on the plan, chief minister devendrafadnavis said, the long-term measures to root out drought and farmer suicides in the state would require environmental preservation.
;;0.0;;besides taking a scientific approach to soil treatment and embarking upon a mammoth tree plantation drive, the cm said he has roped in experts from the agro-sector.
;;0.0;;at a review meeting held this week with district collectors to assess the drought situation, chief minister devendrafadnavis told the local administration, while the efforts that have helped reduce farmer suicides are laudable, we still have a formidable task ahead.
;;0.8126;;this would be complete with strong agro-industrial linkages to ensure assured dividends to small and marginal farmers in 14 suicide-prone districts, fadnavis said.
;;-0.5719;;fadnavis, who himself toured a few villages and interacted with farmers, told the indian express that the government has gone all out to initiate a slew of measures to alleviate the miseries of the villagers and farmers in eight districts of marathwada.
;;0.4215;;when specifically asked as to what he found out after interacting with farmers, fadnavis said, when i spoke to farmers and villagers, they seemed satisfied with schemes being implemented by the government.
;;0.3818;;at a meeting in nilanga village, where the cm addressed officials, ministers and local politicians, fadnavis said the government was banking heavily on jalyukt shivar yojana as it will ensure that every farmer in a village gets enough water to cultivate crop and villagers get sufficient stock of water.
;;0.4019;;fadnavis on wednesday announced that the government would provide financial support of rs 1,500 per farmer up to two hectares for resowing if necessary.
;;-0.6249;;spelling out the governments plan for water and fodder supply in arid areas, fadnavis said that a contingency plan was in place to face the crisis.
;;0.0;;the cm said neither one-time loan waiver nor repeated subsidies would bring prosperity.
;;0.3182;;fadnavis said if loan waiver were a lasting solution, he would have pursued it even at the cost of all financial constraints.
;;-0.0258;;fadnavis told the villagers, we are making effort to ensure the investment cost in the agriculture is reduced to minimise the financial losses incurred by the farmers.
;;0.4767;;fadnavis said the immediate concern is to provide relief to farmers.
;;0.3182;;fadnavis said that ahead of the rabi season the government wants maximum farmers from drought hit regions to avail of fresh loans.
;;0.3818;;chief minister devendrafadnavis on friday said an integrated scheme to ensure economic sustenance for small and marginal farmers was being worked out to put an end to farmer suicides in maharashtra.
;;0.34;;fadnavis said, the state has decided to include 25 lakh farmers in value chain for all major crops.
;;-0.3929;;fadnavis said, even if a single farmer is driven to end his life it is extremely painful and not acceptable in a state like maharashtra.
;;0.25;;at a meeting held with senior bureaucrats, fadnavis said maharashtra would have to rise to the challenge posed by natural calamity, that has adversely hit 90 lakh farmers.
;;-0.9062;;prima facie, it is estimated that the yavatmal district has suffered the highest losses with 17,000 hectares of crops having suffered damage, the cm said in a statement.
;;-0.5719;;fadnavis said while the congress-ncp government boasted of low-interest loans to the farmers, it paid no heed to other aspects such as fertilisers, seeds, water pumps, irrigation facilities that added to the production cost and drove the farmers to land into debt traps.












